---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70549 / September 27, 2013    
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3496 / September 27, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15530 
 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
                                                    AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                                    TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       SCOTT LONDON, CPA,                           AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                         MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                    AND-DESIST ORDER 
                                                     
                                               I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate      that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Scott London, 
CPA (“Respondent” or “London”) pursuant to Sections 4C   1
                                                           and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (“Exchange Act”), Rule 102(e)(1)(ii ) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.2
                                                                                                   
                                                 
1
  Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege 
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the 
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in 
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engag ed in unethical or improper professional conduct.  
 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found…to ha ve willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, Respondent consents to the Commission’s 
jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings and to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       These proceedings involve multiple auditor independence rule violations by an accountant, 
London, who accepted cash and other things of value as compensation for tips he provided to a 
friend concerning five audit clients.  On at least 18 occasions between October 2010 and February 
2013, Respondent, a partner at KPMG LLP (“KPMG”) disclosed material non  -public information 
concerning five of KPMG’s corporate clients to Bryan Shaw (“Shaw”), who traded in the 
companies’ securities prior to several corporate announcements.  KPMG issued audit reports to and 
reviewed quarterly financial statements for the five corporate clients in connection with and 
following these announcements .  The clients filed with the Commission annual reports, quarterly 
reports, as well as proxy or information statements which incorporated financial statements.  
Respondent’s conduct caused KPMG to violate the independence rules with respect to the five 
clients.  These violations in turn caused the five clients to make filings with the Commission that did 
not comply with the issuers’ reporting requirements.  After KPMG learned of Respondent’s 
conduct, it resigned from two audit engagements, withdrew previously issued audit reports for these 
clients, and withdrew reports on the effectiveness of their internal control over financial reporting. 

B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       Scott London, age 50, of Agoura Hills, California, is a certified public accountant licensed 
to practice in the states of California and Nevada.  London was employed at KPMG LLP and its 
predecessor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP (“KPMG”) from 1984 until his termination o    n April 5, 
2013.  During the time period relevant to this proceeding, London was the Partner-in-Charge of 
KPMG’s Pacific Southwest business unit audit practice that served clients in California, Arizona 
and Nevada, and was the Lead Audit Engagement Partner on the Herbalife, Ltd. (“Herbalife”) and 
Skechers USA, Inc. (“Skechers”) engagements .  London also served as the Account Executive for 
Deckers Outdoor Corp. (“Deckers”) from 2009 through the 2011 audit engagement period.  Due to 
his position at the firm, London routinely had access to material non-public information regarding 
many of KPMG’s audit   clients. 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
C.     FACTS 
 
       1.     Affected Issuers 
 
              a)     Herbalife, Ltd. (“Herbalife”) is a Cayman Islands corporation headquartered 
in the Cayman Islands, with corporate offices in Los Angeles, California.  During the time period 
relevant to this proceeding, Herbalife’s stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  KPMG   was 
Herbalife’s auditor during the time period relevant to this proceeding.  On April 9, 2013, Herbalife 
filed a Form 8-K announcing that KPMG resigned as its auditor on April 8, 2013.  The Form 8-K 
stated that KPMG “concluded it was not independent because of alleged insider trading in 
[Herbalife’s] securities by one of KPMG’s former partners, who until April 5, 2013, was the KPMG 
engagement partner on [Herbalife’s] audit.”  As a result, the Form 8-K disclosed, “KPMG notified 
[Herbalife] its independence has been impaired and [it] had no option but to withdraw its audit 
report on [Herbalife’s] financial statements for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 
2012 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, 
2011 and 2012. . . .”    

              b)     Skechers USA, Inc. (“Skechers”) is a Delaware corporation headquartered in 
Manhattan Beach, California.  During the time period relevant to this proceeding, Skechers’ stock 
was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and traded on 
the New York Stock Exchange.  KPMG was Skechers    ’ auditor during the time period relevant to 
this proceeding.  On April 10, 2013, Skechers filed a Form 8-K announcing that KPMG resigned as 
its auditor on April 8, 2013.  The Form 8-K stated that KPMG “concluded it was not independent 
because of alleged insider trading in [Skechers’] securities by one of KPMG’s former partners who 
was the KPMG engagement    partner on [Skechers’] audit for the 2011 and 2012 fiscal years.”  As a 
result, the Form 8-K disclosed, “KPMG notified [Skechers] its independence has been impaired and 
it had no option but to withdraw its audit report on [Skechers’] financial statements for the fiscal 
years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 and the effectiveness of internal control over financial 
reporting as of December 31, 2011 and 2012. . . .” 

              c)     Deckers Outdoor Corp. (“Deckers”) is a Delaware corporation headquartered 
in Goleta, California.  During the time period relevant to this proceeding, Deckers’ stock was 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and traded on the 
Nasdaq Global Select Market.  KPMG  was Deckers’ auditor during the relevant time period.   

              d)     RSC Holdings, Inc. (“RSC Holdings”) was a Delaware corporation 
headquartered in Scottsdale, Arizona.  During the time period relevant to this proceeding, RSC 
Holdings’ stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange 
Act, and its shares were traded on the New York Stock Exchange.  On May 15, 2012, RSC 
Holdings filed a Form 15 terminating its securities registration with the Commission pursuant to 
Rules 12g-4(a)(1) and 12h-3(b)(1)(i) of the Exchange Act.  KPMG  was RSC Holdings’ auditor 
during the relevant time period. 

                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

              e)     Pacific Capital Bancorp. (“Pacific Capital”) was a Delaware corporation and 
a bank holding company headquartered in Santa Barbara, California.  During the time period 
relevant to this proceeding, Pacific Capital’s stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, and its shares were traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market.  On 
December 19, 2012, Pacific Capital filed a Form 15 terminating its securities registration with the 
Commission pursuant to Rules 12g-4(a)(1) and 12h-3(b)(1)(i) of the Exchange Act.  KPMG  was 
Pacific Capital’s auditor during the relevant time period. 

       2.     Lack of Independence 
 
              a)      KPMG is a Delaware limited liability partnership and the U.S. member firm 
of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International 
Cooperative, a Swiss entity.  KPMG is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“PCAOB”).  At all relevant times and continuing to the present, KPMG has provided 
auditing services to a variety of companies, including companies whose securities are registered 
with the Commission and traded in the U.S. markets. 
 
              b)      During the time period relevant to this proceeding, KPMG performed annual 
audits and quarterly reviews of financial statements for Herbalife, Skechers, Deckers, RSC 
Holdings, and Pacific Capital (collectively, the “Audit Clients”).   
 
              c)      During the time period relevant to this proceeding, London was KPMG’s 
Lead Audit Engagement Partner on the Herbalife and Skechers engagements.  London was also 
KPMG’s Partner-in-Charge of the firm’s Pacific Southwest business unit audit practice that served 
each of the above-referenced Audit Clients.  As the Partner-in-Charge, London was responsible for 
the financial performance of the audit practice, and involved in the annual client continuance 
process with respect to all audit clients of the Pacific Southwest business unit.  London was also 
responsible for assigning the Lead Audit Engagement Partners in the Pacific Southwest business 
unit (including the Lead Audit Engagement Partners for Deckers and RSC Holdings during the 
relevant period).  London evaluated the performance of, and provided input into, the compensation 
decisions for most of the audit partners in the business unit.  Specifically, he evaluated the Lead 
Audit Engagement Partners for audits and interim reviews of Deckers’ and RSC Holdings’ annual 
and quarterly financial statements during the relevant period.  London further served as the Account 
Executive for Deckers from 2009 through the 2011 audit engagement period.   

              d)      London provided Shaw with material non-public information that London 
received in the course of his employment with KPMG, concerning financial results, earnings, 
guidance and/or merger announcements by the Audit Clients, with the knowledge or belief that 
Shaw intended to use the information to trade in the companies’ securities in advance of the 
following public announcements: 

                              

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 Issuer                Date                                Event 
 Deckers             10/28/10     Financial results for fiscal third quarter 
 Herbalife            11/1/10     Financial results for fiscal third quarter 
 Skechers             2/16/11     Financial results for fiscal fourth quarter and year end 
 Herbalife            2/22/11     Financial results for fiscal fourth quarter and year end 
 Skechers             4/27/11     Financial results for fiscal first quarter  
 Herbalife            5/2/11      Financial results for fiscal first quarter 
 Skechers             7/27/11     Financial results for fiscal second quarter 
 Herbalife            8/1/11      Financial results for fiscal second quarter 
 Skechers            10/26/11     Financial results for fiscal third quarter 
 Deckers             10/27/11     Financial results for fiscal third quarter 
 RSC Holdings        12/15/11     Agreement to be acquired by United Rentals, Inc. 
 Skechers             2/15/12     Financial results for fiscal fourth quarter and year end 
 Herbalife            2/21/12     Financial results for fiscal fourth quarter and year end 
 Deckers              2/23/12     Financial results for fiscal fourth quarter and year end 
 Pacific Capital      3/9/12      Agreement to be acquired by UnionBanCal Corporation 
 Deckers              4/26/12     Financial results for fiscal first quarter 
 Herbalife            2/19/13     Financial results for fiscal fourth quarter and year end 
 Deckers              2/28/13     Financial results for fiscal fourth quarter and year end 

               e)     London accepted cash  and other valuable items, including jewelry, concert 
tickets and a Rolex Daytona Cosmograph, as compensation for the inside information he provided 
to Shaw. 

               f)     London knew that passing material non-public information to Shaw was 
wrong and understood  that KPMG explicitly prohibited employees from disclosing inside 
information regarding clients.   

               g)     KPMG represented that it was independent and had conducted audits “in 
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)” 
in each Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (“audit reports”) it provided to 
the Audit Clients, for the years listed below: 
                      (1)  Herbalife for its fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. 
                      (2)  Deckers for its fiscal years   ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. 
                      (3)  Skechers for its fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012. 
                      (4)  RSC Holdings for its fiscal year   ended December 31, 2011. 
                      (5)  Pacific Capital for its fiscal year   ended December 31, 2011. 

               h)     KPMG conducted interim reviews of financial   statements for Herbalife and 
Deckers for the quarter ended September 30, 2010.  KPMG also conducted interim reviews of 
financial statements for Herbalife, Deckers and Skechers for the quarters ended March 31, June 30, 
and September 30, in the fiscal years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012.  Additionally, KPMG 

                                                5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

conducted interim reviews of financial statements for Pacific Capital for the quarters ended March 
31, June 30, and September 30, 2012. 

               i)     KPMG represented to each of the Audit Clients during the affected periods 
that it was “independent” within the meaning of the federal securities laws and therefore able to 
serve as each client’s external auditor.  These written confirmations did not disclose London’s 
receipt of compensation in exchange for providing inside information to Shaw concerning the Audit 
Clients as detailed above.   

               j)     The Audit Clients filed with the Commission annual financial statements that 
included KPMG’s audit reports on Forms 10-K.  The Audit Clients, additionally, filed with the 
Commission quarterly financial statements that had been reviewed by KPMG    on Forms 10-Q.   

               k)     RSC Holdings also  filed a proxy statement which incorporated by reference 
a Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, that contained KPMG’s audit 
report.  Pacific Capital, similarly, filed a Schedule 14C information statement with the Commission 
that incorporated by reference a Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, that 
contained KPMG’s audit report.   

       3.      Violations 
 
               a)     Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X codifies accountant qualification requirements, 
and Rule 2-01(b) articulates the general standard of auditor independence.  Preliminary Note 3 to 
Rule 2-01 states that the Commission will consider all relevant facts and circumstances in 
determining whether an accountant is independent.  Rule 2-01(b) provides that “[t]he Commission 
will not recognize an accountant as independent, with respect to an audit client, if the accountant is 
not, or a reasonable investor with knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances would conclude 
that the accountant is not, capable of exercising objective and impartial judgment on all issues 
encompassed within the accountant’s engagement.”     

               b)     Rule 2-01(c)(1) of Regulation S-X provides in pertinent part that “[a]n 
accountant is not independent if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, 
the accountant has a direct financial interest or a material indirect financial interest in the 
accountant's audit client. . .”  Similarly, the p rofessional independence standards for accountants 
and auditors, as set forth in AICPA ET Rule 101.02, and adopted by the PCAOB as its interim 
ethical standards under Rule 3600T, state, in part, that “[i]ndependence shall be considered to be 
impaired if during the period of the professional engagement a covered member had . . . any direct 
or material indirect financial interest in the client. . . .” 

               c)     Rule 2-01(f)(11) of Regulation S-X defines covered persons to include 
partners, principals, shareholders, and employees of an accounting firm who are on the “audit 
engagement team” or in the “chain of command,” as well as any other partner, principal, or 
shareholder from an “office” of the accounting firm in which the lead audit engagement partner 
primarily practices in connection with the audit.  Rule 2-01(f)(7)(i), in turn, defines the “audit 
engagement team” as including “all partners . . . participating in an audit, review, or attestation 
engagement of an audit client, including audit partners. . . .”; Rule 2-01(f)(7)(ii) defines the “audit 
                                                6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

partner” as including the “lead or coordinating audit partner having primary responsibility for the 
audit or review”; and Rule 2-01(f)(8) provides that persons in the “chain of command” include 
individuals who “(i) [s]upervise or have direct management responsibility for the audit, including 
at all successive senior levels through the accounting firm’s chief executive; (ii) [e]valuate the 
performance or recommend the compensation of the audit engagement partner; or (iii) [p]rovide 
quality control or other oversight of the audit.” 

              d)      London was a covered person as to all of the Audit Clients during the 
relevant period.  London was the Lead Audit Engagement Partner on the Herbalife and Skechers 
engagements, and in the chain of command with respect to each of the Audit Clients as a result of 
his role as the partner in charge of KPMG’s Pacific Southwest business unit audit practice.   

              e)      London had prohibited financial interests in the Audit Clients, as a result of 
his receipt of cash and other valuable consideration in exchange for the material non-public 
information he provided Shaw concerning financial results, earnings, guidance and/or merger 
announcements that London either knew or believ ed Shaw intended to use to trade in the 
companies’ securities prior to public announcements.  London therefore lacked independence with 
respect to the Audit Clients under Rules 2-01(b) and (c)(1) of Regulation S-X, PCAOB Rule 3600T, 
and AICPA ET Rule 101.02.   

              f)      Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires accountants’ reports to state 
“whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.” 
“[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS 
or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the 
standards of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission.”  SEC Release No. 34  -
49708.  Thus, an auditor violates Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X if it issues a report stating that 
it had conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB standards when it had not.   

              g)      As a result of London’s conduct described above, KPMG violated Rule 2-
02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.  KPMG’s audits and interim reviews of the Audit Clients’ financial 
statements were not conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards because London, a covered 
person in KPMG, lacked independence as to the Audit Clients.  As a result of his conduct, London 
willfully aided and abetted and caused KPMG’s violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.   

              h)      KPMG’s failure to comply with Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X in turn 
caused the Audit Clients to file annual reports with the Commission on Forms 10-K that failed to 
include independently audited financial statements as required by Exchange Act Section 13(a) and 
Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  KPMG’s lack of independence, additionally, caused the Audit Clients to 
file interim financial statements on Forms 10-Q, pursuant to Rule 13a-13 under the Exchange Act, 
that had not been reviewed by an independent public accountant prior to filing, as required under 
Rule 10-01(d) of Regulation S-X.  As a result of his conduct, London willfully  aided and abetted 
and caused the Audit Clients' violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1 and 
13a-13 thereunder during the aforementioned fiscal years.               
 
              i)      KPMG’s failure to comply with Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X also 
caused the Audit Clients to file proxy or information statements on Schedules 14A and 14C that 
                                               7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

failed to comply with the requirements of Sections 14(a) and 14(c) of the Exchange Act and Rules 
14a-3 and 14c-2 thereunder.  Specifically,  the proxy statements filed by the Audit Clients in 
connection with annual meetings of shareholders were neither accompanied nor preceded by 
audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Regulation S-X, as required pursuant to 
Rules 14a-3 and 14c-2.  Furthermore, the proxy statement filed by RSC Holdings and the 
information statement filed by Pacific Capital in connection with the announced acquisitions 
incorporated each company’s Form 10-K containing KPMG’s improperly issued audit report.  As a 
result of his conduct, London willfully aided and abetted and caused the Audit Clients’ violations 
of Section 14(a) and 14(c) of the Exchange Act and Rules 14a-3 and 14c-2 thereunder. 
 
              j)      As a result of the conduct described above, London engaged in improper 
professional conduct.  For accountants, improper professional conduct includes “intentional or 
knowing conduct, including reckless conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional 
standards.”  Rule  102(e)(1)(iv)(A).  London intentionally and knowingly violated a duty of trust 
and confidence owed to KPMG and the Audit Clients when he tipped Shaw while a covered 
person and thus failed to comply with Rules 2-01(b) and (c)(1) of Regulation S-X, and violated 
PCAOB Rule 3600T and AICPA ET Rule 101.02. 
 
       4.     Findings 
 
              a)      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that London (a) willfully 
aided and abetted and caused KPMG’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; and (b) 
willfully aided and abetted and caused the Audit Clients’ violations of Sections 13(a), 14(a) and 
14(c) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, 14a-3 and 14c-2 promulgated thereunder. 
 
              b)      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that London engaged in 
improper professional conduct pursuant to Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                              IV. 
                                                
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent London’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
        
                              

                                               8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       A.     London shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 13(a), 14(a) and 14(c) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-13, 
14a-3 and 14c-2 promulgated thereunder, and of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.   
 
       B.     London is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 

                                               9  
