---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 71161 / December 20, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3521 / December 20, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15659 
 
                                                    
In the Matter of                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
       Thomas D. Melvin , CPA                      IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                                   PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
             Respondent.                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
                                                      

                                                  I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
               1
Rule 102(e)(3)   of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Thomas D. Melvin (“Respondent” 
or “Melvin”).   
                                                 II. 
 
       The Commission finds that: 
        
       A.      RESPONDENT 
               1.      Thomas  D.  Melvin,  46  years  old,  is  and  has  been  a  certified  public 
accountant (“CPA”) licensed to practice in the State of Georgia.  He has been a partner in the 
accounting firm of Melvin, Rooks and Howell in Griffin, Georgia, for a number of years. 
   

                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission,       from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal  securities laws  or of the  rules  and  regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       B.     CIVIL INJUNCTION 
   
              2.      On August 14, 2013 the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of 
Georgia  entered  a  final  judgment  against  Melvin,  permanently  enjoining  him  from  future 
violations, direct or indirect, of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 
10b-5 thereunder.  Securities and Exchange Commission v. Melvin, et al., Civil Action Number 
1:12-cv-2984-CAP (N.D. Ga.).   
        
              3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that Melvin and others engaged in a 
fraudulent insider trading scheme in which Melvin misappropriated confidential information from 
one of his clients regarding an imminent merger involving a company of which the client was a 
director.  The complaint alleges that Melvin tipped four friends and business associates about the 
merger in violation of his fiduciary duties to his clients, and then those tippees purchased shares of 
the target company, realizing large profits.  
        
                                              III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently  enjoined  Melvin,  a  CPA,  from  violating  the  Federal  securities  laws  within  the 
meaning of Rule 102(e)(3)(i)(A) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  In view of these findings, 
the  Commission  deems  it  appropriate  and  in  the  public  interest  that  Melvin  be  temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Melvin be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Melvin may within thirty days after service of this Order 
file a petition with the Commission to lift the temporary suspension.   If the Commission within 
thirty days after service of the Order receives no petition, the suspension shall become permanent 
pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
       If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within thirty days after the filing of the petition, either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing is ordered, following the hearing, the Commission may lift the suspension, censure the 
petitioner, or disqualify the petitioner from appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
       This Order shall be served upon Melvin personally or by certified mail at his last known 
address. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                      Secretary 
 
  
 
 

                                                 3  
