---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                          
                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74613 / March 31, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3645 / March 31, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16464 
 
                                              
In the Matter of                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
                                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      POLYCOM, INC.  ,                       SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                             EXCHAN  GE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondent.                                  FINDINGS  AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                             AND-DESIST ORDER  
                                                 
                                            I.  

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Polycom, Inc. (“Polycom” or “Respondent”).   

                                           II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section IV, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist 
Order  (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                             
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 

                                                                               1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  

       1.     Polycom, Inc., a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in San 
Jose, California, sells communications and collaboration technology.  Polycom’s stock is 
registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on the Nasdaq Global Select 
Market under the ticker symbol “PLCM.” 

       2.     Andrew M. Miller (“Miller”) was Polycom’s CEO from approximately May 2010 
and a Polycom Director from approximately June 2010, positions which he held until July 19, 
2013, when he resigned both positions.  

       3.     From approximately May 2010 until July 2013, Polycom paid for at least 
approximately $190,000 worth of Miller’s personal expenses without disclosing the expenses as 
compensation to Miller on the company’s definitive proxy statements.  Among others, these 
expenses included reimbursement for personal meals, clothing, entertainment and travel.   

       4.     Miller charged some of those personal expenses to his credit card and then, in 
order to obtain reimbursement from Polycom, submitted expense reports with false business 
descriptions.   

       5.     Miller directed his administrative assistants to pay for certain other of his personal 
expenses with their company purchasing cards (“P-Cards”), and he provided them with false 
business descriptions that were recorded as support for the charges.  Polycom policy permitted 
Miller to review and approve the P-Card charges incurred by his administrative assistants, even 
though they had been incurred at his direction and on his behalf, allowing him to dispose of 
company assets without supervision.   

       6.     Miller also charged Polycom for certain of his personal air travel, which cost 
Polycom at least approximately $16,000.  Polycom permitted Miller to book and charge flights 
without providing any description of their purpose, allowing him to improperly use company 
funds without supervision.  

       7.     At least approximately $80,000 of Miller’s personal expenses were incurred and 
paid for by Polycom in connection with the company’s “CEO Circle” program, an annual 
incentive trip offered to Polycom’s top-performing sales people.  More than $65,000 in Polycom 

                                                 
       1
         The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding 
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  

        

           
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

funds were used to pay for Miller’s travel to Indonesia and South Africa with a friend and 
girlfriend, respectively, to purportedly conduct “site inspections” for the CEO Circle program.  
Polycom paid for Miller and his guests to enjoy luxury accommodations, food, entertainment and 
activities during these purported “site inspections.”  In addition, during the actual CEO Circle 
events, Polycom paid for more than $13,000 worth of personal side-trips, spa treatments, and 
other “incidentals” for Miller and his girlfriend, who attended as his guest.  Miller hid certain of 
his personal CEO-Circle-related costs by directing a Polycom vendor to falsify invoices and bury 
the charges in fake event budget line items.  

       8.     Polycom thus omitted from its compensation disclosures at least the following 
amounts of Miller’s personal expenses, by year: $15,345 in 2010; $28,478 in 2011; $115,683 in 
2012; and $30,474 in 2013.  Polycom also omitted from its compensation disclosures any 
description of the nature of the personal expenses that Miller had obtained. 

       9.     In its 2013 proxy statement, which disclosed 2012 compensation, Polycom 
highlighted perquisites as a metric of its corporate governance and pay-for-performance goals 
and stated that it provided “no excessive perquisites” to its executives.    

       10.    Polycom incorporated its definitive proxy statements into its annual reports by 
reference.  

       11.    As a result of the conduct described above, Polycom violated Section 14(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 14a-3 and 14a-9 thereunder.  Rule 14a-3 prohibits issuers with 
securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act from soliciting proxies without 
furnishing proxy statements containing the information specified in Schedule 14A, including 
executive compensation disclosures pursuant to Item 402 of Regulation S-K.  Item 402 of 
Regulation S-K requires disclosure of the total value of all perquisites provided to Named 
Executive Officers (including CEOs) who receive more than $10,000 in perquisites in a given 
year.  Item 402 of Regulation S-K also requires disclosure of all perquisites by type, and specific 
identification of any perquisite greater than $25,000 or 10% of total perquisites.  Rule 14a-9 
prohibits the use of proxy statements containing materially false or misleading statements or 
materially misleading omissions.   

       12.    Also as a result of the conduct described above, Polycom violated Section 13(a) 
of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 12b-20 thereunder, which require every issuer of a 
security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act to file with the Commission 
annual reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that the reports contain such further 
material information as may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading. 

       13.    Because Polycom incorrectly recorded Miller’s personal charges as business 
expenses, and not compensation, its books, records and accounts did not, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect its dispositions of assets.  

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       14.    In addition, Polycom failed to implement adequate internal accounting controls 
relating to its company-issued P-Cards and air travel booking that were sufficient to maintain the 
accountability of its assets.  

       15.    As a result of the conduct described above, Polycom violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) 
of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records and 
accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and 
dispositions of their assets.  

       16.    Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Polycom violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B), which requires reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of internal 
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are executed in 
accordance with management’s general or specific authorization and are recorded as necessary to 
maintain accountability for assets, and that access to assets is permitted only in accordance with 
management’s general or specific authorization.  

                                         Undertakings 

       17.    Respondent undertakes to cooperate fully with the Commission in any and all 
investigations, litigations or other proceedings relating to or arising from the matters described in 
the Order.  In connection with such cooperation, Respondent undertakes:  

              a.      To produce, without service of a notice or subpoena, any and all 
documents and other information reasonably requested by the Commission’s staff, with a 
custodian declaration as to their authenticity, if requested; 

              b.     To use its best efforts to cause Respondent’s current and former 
employees, officers and directors to be interviewed by the Commission's staff at such times and 
places as the staff reasonably may direct; 

              c.      To use its best efforts to cause Respondent’s current and former 
employees, officers and directors to appear and testify truthfully and completely without service 
of a notice or subpoena in such investigations, depositions, hearings or trials as may be 
reasonably requested by the Commission’s staff; and 

              d.     In connection with any interviews of Respondent’s current and former 
employees, officers and directors to be conducted pursuant to this undertaking, requests for such 
interviews may be provided by the Commission’s staff by regular or electronic mail to: Caz 
Hashemi, Esq.; Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati; 650 Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, CA 94304; 
chashemi@wsgr.com, or such other counsel that may be substituted by Respondent. 

       In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered the 
Undertakings.  

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                 Polycom’s Remedial Efforts 

       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondent and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Polycom’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Polycom cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B) and 14(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 14a-3 and 14a-9 
thereunder. 

       B.     Respondent shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
penalty in the amount of $750,000  to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment 
is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in 
one of the following ways:   

       (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
       provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
       (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
       SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 
       (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
       postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
       delivered or mailed to:  
        
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
                              

                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Polycom as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Jina Choi, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 44 Montgomery Street, Suite 2800, San Francisco, CA 94104.    
 
            

       By the Commission. 

 

                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                6  
