---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78145 / June 23, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3785 / June 23, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17134  
                                                 
                                                :        
                                                :        
                                                :         
In the Matter of                                :       ORDER MAKING FINDINGS AND 
                                                :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
TIMOTHY QUINTANILLA, CPA,                       :       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE  
                                                :       COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE 
                Respondent.                     :        
                                                :        
                                                :        
____________________________________ :                    
                                                         
                                                   I. 
 
        On February 25, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) 
instituted public administrative proceedings against Timothy Quintanilla (“Respondent” or 
                                                                                     1
“Quintanilla”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.    
                                                     
                                                   II. 
 
        Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it   any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . [ p ] ermanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of 
his or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and 
abetting the violation of any provi sion of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and 
regulations thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

the subject matter of these proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which 
are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice (“Order”), as 
set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
               1.      Quintanilla, age 48, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of California.  From at least 2006 through December 2009, Quintanilla was a 
partner at Mendoza Berger & Co. LLP (“Mendoza Berger”), a public accounting firm registered 
with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) that issued audit opinions 
concerning the financial statements of Electronic Game Card, Inc. (“EGMI”). 
 
               2.      EGMI was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation that marketed 
patented, credit-card sized electronic games.  Most recently headquartered in Irvine, California, it 
has maintained offices in New York City and London, England.  During the relevant period, the 
company’s shares were registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and dually quoted on 
the OTC Bulletin Board and Pink Sheets (now known as OTC Link), trading under the ticker 
symbol EGMI.  On September 28, 2010, EGMI filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy protection in the 
United States Bankruptcy Court for the District of Nevada. 
 
               3.     On November 8, 2012, the Commission filed a complaint against 
Quintanilla in Securities and Exchange Commission v. Lee Cole et al,. (Civil Action Number 12-
CV-8167, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York).  On 
December 4, 2015, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Quintanilla, by consent, from 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 10(b), 10A(a)(1), and 
10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Quintanilla was also ordered to pay a 
$100,000 civil money penalty. 
 
               4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Quintanilla 
 was the engagement partner for Mendoza Berger’s audits of EGMI’s financial statements.  The 
 complaint alleged Quintanilla made the final decision to issue unqualified audit opinions with 
 respect to such financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2006, December 31, 2007, 
 and December 31, 2008, even though those statements contained material misstatements and 
 omissions.  The complaint alleged that in those audit opinions, Mendoza Berger and Quintanilla 
 knowingly or recklessly misrepresented that the firm had conducted audits of EGMI’s financial 
 statements in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB and that, in Mendoza Berger’s 
 opinion, those statements presented fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of 
 EGMI.  The complaint alleged that Mendoza Berger had not audited critical aspects of EGMI’s 
 financial statements, its work did not conform to the standards of the PCAOB, and it had no 
 basis to issue an opinion on EGMI’s financial statements.  The complaint alleged that in the 
 course of its audit work, Quintanilla and the audit team he supervised failed to properly 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 investigate a series of red flags, any number of which, if appropriately pursued, would have 
 revealed significant fraud in EGMI’s financial reporting   
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Quintanilla’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that:  Quintanilla is 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.   
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                 3  
