---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75933 / September 16, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3696 / September 16, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16815 
 
 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                   ADMINISTRATIVE  
                                                        PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
           In the Matter of                             102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                                                         
                Joseph F. Apuzzo, CPA                                                       
 
                     Respondent. 
 
 
                                                      
 
                                                I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest  that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Joseph 
F. Apuzzo (“Respondent” or “Apuzzo”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
           1
of Practice. 
 
 
 
                                                  
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by 
               order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . .  who has been by 
               name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her 
               misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the 
               violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations thereunder.  
 

                                                  
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 
102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Apuzzo, age 59, was licensed as a certified public accountant in the State of 
New York beginning in 1986 until he allowed his license to lapse in 1995.  He served as Vice 
President of Finance of Terex Corporation (“Terex”) from 1995 to 1996, Comptroller of Terex from 
1996 to 1998, and Chief Financial Officer of Terex from October 1998 until September 2002, when 
he became President of Terex Financial Services.  He resigned from Terex in August 2005. 
        
              2.      Terex was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its principal 
place of business in Westport, Connecticut.  Terex is a diversified global manufacturer of a broad 
range of equipment primarily for construction, infrastructure and surface to mining industries.  At 
all relevant times, Terex’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and trades on the New York Stock 
Exchange. 
 
              3.      On December 27, 2007, the Commission filed a complaint against Apuzzo 
in SEC v. Joseph F. Apuzzo (Civil Action No. 3:07-cv-01910-AWT).  On September 8, 2015, 
the court entered an order permanently enjoining Apuzzo, by consent, from violation of Sections 
10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder, and from aiding 
and abetting violation of  Sections 13(a) and13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 
thereunder.  Apuzzo was also ordered to pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $100,000.   
 
              4.     The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Apuzzo 
knowingly and substantially aided and abetted former officers of United Rentals, Inc. (“URI”) 
with URI’s violations of the antifraud, reporting, and books and records provisions of the federal 
securities laws, by among other things, improperly recognizing revenue from two fraudulent 
sale-leaseback transactions between URI and Terex.  In both transactions, URI sold used 
equipment to a financing company, General Electric Capital Corporation (“GECC”), and then 
leased it back for an 8-month period.  The complaint alleges that URI also arranged, through 
Apuzzo, for Terex to remarket the equipment at the end of the lease period and to provide GECC 

                                                2 
                                                 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

with a residual value guarantee under which Terex guaranteed that GECC would receive not less 
than 96 percent of the purchase price that it had paid URI for the used equipment. For one of the 
transactions, URI and Terex also entered into a “backup” remarketing agreement, signed by 
Apuzzo, under which URI effectively assumed Terex’s remarketing obligations and guarantees 
to GECC and agreed to cover, through guaranteed future purchases, any losses to Terex over the 
amount of a $5 million advance payments made by URI.  As a result of this fraudulent 
accounting, the complaint alleges that the financial statements and results that URI incorporated 
into its periodic filings and other materials disseminated to the investing public were materially 
false and misleading.  The Complaint alleges that Apuzzo knowingly provided substantial 
assistance to URI in perpetrating the fraud by helping to conceal URI’s assumption of the risks 
and obligations of the transactions from URI’s auditors.  The Complaint alleges that Apuzzo also 
knew that the price of the equipment being paid by GECC to URI was inflated above fair market 
value and would therefore cause Terex to suffer a loss.  
                       
                                               IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Apuzzo’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Apuzzo is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.     After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
              1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
               
              2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 
 

                                                4 
                                                  
