---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75563 / July 30, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3672 / July 30, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16709
                                            
                                           :        
                                           :        
                                           :         
       In the Matter of                    :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                           :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              Christopher Edwards, CA,  :          102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                           :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
              Respondent.                  :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                           :        
                                           :        
____________________________________ :               
                                                    
 
                                              I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Christopher Edwards (“Respondent” or “Edwards”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.1
                                   
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                
                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanentl y 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                             III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Christopher Edwards, 32, a citizen and resident of the United Kingdom, 
was a Finance Manager in Computer Science Corporation’s Nordic region from December 2008 
to June 2010.  He left the company in October 2010.  Edwards is a Chartered Accountant in the 
United Kingdom.   
               
              2.      Computer Sciences Corporation (“CSC”), a Nevada corporation 
headquartered in Falls Church, Virginia, sells information technology services.  At all relevant 
times, CSC’s common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
               
              3.      On June 5, 2015, the Commission filed a complaint in the United States 
District Court for the Southern District of New York against Edwards in Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. Christopher Edwards, Civil Action Number 15-cv-4339 (RA).  On July    24, 2015, 
the court entered an order permanently enjoining Edwards, by consent, from future violations of 
Sections 17(a) (1) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) and Sections 10(b) and 
13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-5(a) and (c)  and 
13b2-1 promulgated thereunder, and from aiding and abetting future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 promulgated 
thereunder.  Edwards was also barred from acting as an officer or director of any public company 
pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Securities Act and Section 21(d)(2) of the Exchange Act for a 
period of four years. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that Edwards fraudulently inflated 
 CSC’s earnings in its fiscal year 2010.  Edwards recorded and maintained large amounts of 
 “prepaid assets” on CSC’s balance sheet that the company was instead required to record as 
 expenses on its income statement.  By doing so, Edwards artificially and materially overstated 
 CSC’s earnings.  As a Finance Manager, Edwards was responsible for ensuring that the company 
 recorded these expenses consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  
 Instead, Edwards’s actions resulted in CSC fraudulently overstating its consolidated operating 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 income by 5% for the first quarter of fiscal year 2010, and in the company materially overstating 
 the operating income of one of its reportable segments in each quarter of that fiscal year. 
  
                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Edwards’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Edwards is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
       B.      After four years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his   practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or  
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his practicing license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the Association of Certified 
Chartered Accountants.  However, if licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 
 

                                                4  
