---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                             
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78873 / September 19, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3803 / September 19, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17553 
 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
In the Matter of                                  ADMINISTRATIVE  AND CEASE- 
                                                   AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS , 
ERNST & YOUNG LLP,                         PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
ROBERT J. BREHL, CPA,                       OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
PAMELA J. HARTFORD, CPA, AND           OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
MICHAEL T. KAMIENSKI, CPA               COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                                            
Respondents.                                                                                    
                                                                          
 
 
 
                                               I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
                                             1
instituted pursuant to Sections 4C(a)(2) and (3) and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                                 2
(“Exchange Act”) and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii)  of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against 

                                                 
1
       Sections 4C(a)(2) and (3) provide, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
              privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
              (2) . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
              violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the 
              rules and regulations issued thereunder. 
        
2
       Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) provide, in pertinent part, that: 
 
              The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
              appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . (ii) … to have engaged in 
              unethical or improper professional conduct; or (iii) [t]o have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                             3
Ernst & Young LLP (“EY”),      Robert J. Brehl (“Brehl”), Pamela J. Hartford (“Hartford”) and 
Michael T. Kamienski (“Kamienski”) (together, the “Respondents”). 
 
                                                  II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (each, an “Offer” and, together, the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined 
to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or 
denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V as to 
Hartford and Brehl, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“the Order”), as set 
forth below.   
 
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                           4
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that:    
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       This matter arises from a close personal relationship between a former EY partner and the 
former chief accounting officer of an EY audit client (the “Issuer”) that caused EY to violate the 
auditor independence rules.  Between March 2012 and June 2014, Pamela Hartford, then an EY 
partner, and Robert Brehl, then the Chief Accounting Officer of the Issuer, maintained a close 
personal and romantic relationship while Hartford was a partner—and later the coordinating 
partner—on the EY engagement team that performed audit and review services for the Issuer.    
 
       From approximately early 2013 through June of 2014, Michael Kamienski, the coordinating 
partner on the engagement team for the Issuer in 2012 and 2013, was aware of facts suggesting a 
possible romantic relationship between Hartford and Brehl.  Kamienski should have identified those 
facts as red flags but did not.  He failed to perform a reasonable inquiry regarding the extent of the 
relationship between Brehl and Hartford or to raise concerns internally to EY’s U.S. Independence 
group.  
                                                                                                                                                             
               and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
               regulations thereunder.     
        
3
       Contemporaneously with this Order, the Commission is issuing In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP and 
Gregory S. Bednar, CPA, Exchange Act Rel. No. 78872 (September 19, 2016). 
 
4
       The findings herein are made in connection with Respondents’ Offers and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
 
                                                  2 
                                                    
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
       During the period that Hartford and Brehl maintained their romantic relationship, EY 
represented that it was independent in audit reports issued on the Issuer’s financial statements, 
which were included or incorporated by reference in public filings with the Commission.  As a 
consequence, EY violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X and caused the Issuer to violate 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  Hartford caused EY’s violation of 
Rule 2-02(b)(1) and caused the Issuer to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 
thereunder.   EY’s, Hartford’s and Kamienski’s conduct also constituted improper professional 
conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
                                                            5
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Brehl caused and willfully   aided and abetted the Issuer’s 
violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  Brehl’s conduct aiding 
and abetting the violation of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder 
constituted willful aiding and abetting of a violation of the Federal securities laws within the 
meaning of Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 
 
B.        RESPONDENTS 
 
        Ernst & Young LLP is a professional services firm headquartered in New York, New 
York.  EY provides auditing, consulting, and tax services to various entities, including companies 
with securities registered with the Commission and traded in U.S. markets.  EY served as the 
Issuer’s auditor during all times relevant to this proceeding.   
 
       Robert J. Brehl, age 54 and a resident of Kentucky, served as the Chief Accounting 
Officer of the Issuer from January 2006 through July 2014, when his employment was terminated.  
Brehl is a certified public accountant licensed in the state of Kentucky. 
        
        Pamela J. Hartford, age 41 and a resident of Illinois, is a certified public accountant 
licensed in the state of Illinois.  During the time period relevant to this proceeding, Hartford 
initially served as the engagement partner and later as the coordinating partner on the EY 
engagement team that provided audit and review services to the Issuer.  Her employment was 
terminated on July 7, 2014. 
 
        Michael T. Kamienski, age 41 and a resident of Illinois, is a certified public accountant 
licensed in the state of Illinois.  From 2009 through 2013, he served as the coordinating partner on 
the EY engagement team that provided audit and review services to the Issuer.  Kamienski also 
served in leadership roles at EY including as EY’s Global Real Estate, Hospitality & Construction 
Assurance Leader, beginning in December 2013, and, beginning in July 2014, as EY’s Central 
Region Assurance Real Estate Market Segment Leader.  Kamienski left the firm on April 18, 2016 
after EY requested his resignation. 
 

                                                 
5
       A “willful” violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows 
what he is doing.’”  Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting,  Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 
977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)).     
                                                 3 
                                                   
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
 
C.        THE ISSUER 

       The Issuer’s securities are registered with the Commission under Section 12(b) of the 
Exchange Act, and its common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange.  The Issuer 
filed annual reports on Form 10-K with the Commission. 
        
D.     FACTS  
 
                Hartford’s Role on the EY Engagement Team  
 
       1.     From at least 2004 through June 2014, EY provided audit and review services to 
the Issuer.  From 2009 through the conclusion of the Issuer’s 2013 audit, Kamienski served as the 
coordinating partner on the EY engagement team that provided those services (the “Engagement 
Team”).  “Coordinating partner” is the term used by EY to describe the lead partner on an audit 
engagement.  
        
       2.     In November 2010, Hartford joined the Engagement Team as a senior manager.  
After EY promoted her to partner in July 2011, Hartford became the engagement partner on the 
Engagement Team, reporting to Kamienski.  In that capacity she was the second highest ranking 
member of the Engagement Team and was responsible for overseeing the Engagement Team’s 
day-to-day audit and review services for the Issuer, including preparing, reviewing and signing off 
on audit workpapers, coordinating resources within EY, and ensuring the completion of the audit 
as planned. 
        
       3.     Hartford assumed the position of coordinating partner on the Engagement Team at 
the end of February 2014 and held that position until EY terminated her employment on July 7, 
2014.    As the coordinating partner, Hartford held ultimate responsibility for the Engagement 
Team’s provision of audit and review services to the Issuer and for independence issues connected 
to the engagement.   
        
              Hartford’s and Brehl’s Relationship 
        
       4.     From March 2012 through June 2014, while Hartford served as the engagement 
partner and then coordinating partner on the Engagement Team, Hartford and Brehl maintained a 
romantic relationship.  Their relationship was marked by a high level of personal intimacy, 
affection and friendship, near daily communications about personal and romantic matters (as well 
as work-related matters), and the occasional exchange of gifts of minimal value on holidays such 
as Valentine’s Day and birthdays.  Hartford and Brehl lived in different cities, but they saw each 
other in person when performing work duties in their hometowns, at industry conferences, and at 
entertainment events sponsored by either the Issuer or EY.   
        
       5.     Hartford and Brehl tried to keep their relationship a secret from their employers and 
colleagues in large part because they were concerned that their employers would deem it 
                                               4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

inappropriate and each contemplated the possibility of EY removing Hartford from the 
Engagement Team.  Despite their efforts, several employees within the Issuer’s accounting and 
treasury departments, including lower level employees and Vice Presidents A, B and C, observed 
interactions between Brehl and Hartford that raised concerns in their minds about a possible 
                                                     
inappropriate relationship between them.                    
        
       6.      Despite the nature and extent of their relationship, Hartford signed off on most of 
the independence-related workpapers from EY’s 2012 and 2013 audits of the Issuer that in large 
part formed the basis for EY’s conclusion that it was independent of the Issuer during those years.  
In addition, in February 2013 and February 2014, Hartford participated in meetings of the Issuer’s 
Audit Committee at which EY represented that it was independent of the Issuer.  Brehl participated 
in those same Audit Committee meetings and also signed management representation letters to EY 
in February 2013 and February 2014 in which Brehl stated that management, as of the date of the 
letters, “…… has no actual knowledge of facts or circumstances that it knows would prevent Ernst 
& Young, LLP from qualifying as independent of the Company for purposes of Rule 2-01 of 
Regulation S-X.”   
                          
               Hartford’s Selection as Coordinating Partner   
        
       7.      At the conclusion of the Issuer’s 2013 audit, Kamienski, having served as the 
coordinating partner for five consecutive years, was required by the Commission’s auditor 
independence rules to rotate off the Engagement Team.  The new coordinating partner would begin 
service at the start of the Issuer’s 2014 audit year.  Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2013, EY 
compiled a short list of suitable replacements for Kamienski and presented that list to the Issuer.  
Hartford was among the partners on the list. 
        
       8.      The Issuer’s CEO appointed Brehl to a management team.  Brehl and the three 
other members of the management team each separately interviewed Hartford and two other EY 
partners.  Before anyone on the management team interviewed any of the candidates, Brehl 
informed Hartford, but not the other candidates, about some of the questions that could be posed to 
her, and he advised her on persuasive responses.  Brehl did this to advantage Hartford.  Hartford 
was selected as the new coordinating partner, with the approval of the Issuer’s Audit Committee, 
based in large part on her qualifications, skills and experience, performance on the Engagement 
Team over the prior three years, her references, and Brehl’s support. 
        
              Kamienski Failed to Address Red Flags  
        
       9.      During the period when he served as the coordinating partner on the Engagement 
Team, Kamienski was aware of certain facts that should have caused him to conduct further 
inquiry regarding a possible romantic relationship between Brehl and Hartford.  Beginning in at 
least early 2013 and continuing through June 2014, Kamienski periodically told colleagues that 
Brehl was interested in a romantic relationship with Hartford and that he thought she obtained 
responsibilities on the Engagement Team for that reason. 
        

                                                5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       10.    Kamienski made these comments to Hartford, a few members of the Engagement 
Team, and even employees at another EY audit client.  Hartford responded to Kamienski’s 
comments by denying that Brehl maintained a romantic interest in her or by walking away.  
Despite her denials, Kamienski continued to episodically repeat these sorts of comments, including 
in January 2014 when he told a member of the Engagement Team that he thought Brehl’s romantic 
interest in Hartford was the reason she had been selected as the coordinating partner on the 
Engagement Team.    
        
       11.    On February 11, 2014, Vice Presidents A and B informally met with Kamienski 
and another EY partner at a restaurant after work.  During that conversation, Vice Presidents A and 
B expressed concern that Brehl and Hartford were engaged in an inappropriate relationship.  In 
response, Kamienski and the other EY partner described their observations of other potentially 
inappropriate interactions between Brehl and Hartford.  Without inquiring further, Kamienski 
authorized the release of EY’s Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm which, 
on February 18, 2014, the Issuer filed along with its 2013 Form 10-K with the Commission.   
        
       12.    Despite Kamienski’s observations and comments, and the comments of Vice 
Presidents A and B, Kamienski never inquired of Hartford about the extent of her relationship with 
Brehl or provided her with guidance.  Nor did he raise any concerns about Brehl’s and Hartford’s 
relationship with EY’s U.S. Independence group.  Kamienski’s failure in this regard violated EY’s 
independence policies.  Those policies provide that coordinating partners bear ultimate 
responsibility for independence issues on their engagements and in that regard they must identify 
threats to EY’s independence, and upon such identification, consult with EY’s U.S. Independence 
group.  Kamienski did none of these things.         
        
              EY’s Independence Procedures Did Not Specifically Inquire About Close 
              Personal Relationships  
        
       13.    During the relevant period, EY maintained or followed the following policies and 
procedures regarding auditor independence.  EY required audit engagement teams for public 
company clients, including the Issuer, to follow certain annual audit and quarterly review 
procedures to assess EY’s independence from those audit clients.  Those procedures addressed 
possible familial, employment, and financial relationships between the Issuer and EY that are 
expressly prohibited by the Commission’s auditor independence rules.  EY both trained and 
tested its audit professionals on those policies.  They required each audit engagement team 
member to certify that he was independent of the audit client and that he had read, understood, 
and was in compliance with EY’s policies on independence.   

       14.    In addition, and outside of procedures that were specific to individual audit 
clients, EY required audit professionals to again certify, on an annual and quarterly basis, that 
they read, understood, and were in compliance with EY’s internal policies on independence.  
Audit professionals were also required to certify annually that they complied with the Global 
Code of Conduct, which noted that professionals “avoid relationships that impair—or may 
appear to impair—our objectivity and independence.”   In 2012, 2013, and the first quarter of 

                                               6 
                                                 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

2014, Hartford repeatedly certified (in quarterly and annual certifications), that she was 
independent from the Issuer and in compliance with EY’s policies on independence.    
        
       15.    EY’s internal policies on independence provided, among other things, that 
“[i]ndependence issues from an appearance perspective may be created when [an audit 
professional] has a close relationship with an individual, other than an immediate or close family 
member, who is in an accounting role or a financial reporting oversight role at an audit client.”  
The policies further provided that audit professionals should assess the significance of any such 
relationships and were strongly encouraged to discuss them with EY’s U.S. Independence group.  

       16.    Although EY’s independence policies recognized that a non-familial close 
personal relationship between an engagement team member and a client employee in an 
accounting or financial reporting oversight role could present an independence problem, in the 
context of assessing its independence from the Issuer, EY performed no specific procedures to 
identify whether members of the Engagement Team, or employees who served in accounting or 
financial reporting oversight roles at the Issuer, were involved in such a relationship.  While the 
independence certifications that Engagement Team members signed specifically asked about 
possible employment relationships that could impair EY’s independence, they did not 
specifically ask about possible close personal relationships between that Engagement Team 
member and any employees at the Issuer who were in accounting or financial reporting oversight 
roles.         

       17.    As noted, EY’s policies on independence provide that the coordinating partner on 
an audit engagement team bears ultimate responsibility for independence matters related to that 
engagement and should consult with EY’s U.S. Independence group regarding threats to 
independence.  Neither Hartford nor Kamienski conducted any such consultation with EY’s U.S. 
Independence group regarding her personal relationship with Brehl, or the possibility of her 
having a personal relationship with Brehl.   
         
       18.    Despite the fact that Kamienski and another EY partner were aware of red flags 
regarding a possible relationship between Brehl and Hartford, EY represented that it was 
independent of the Issuer in its audit reports for the Issuer’s 2012 and 2013 financial statements.  
Those audit reports were, in turn, included or incorporated by reference in the Issuer’s annual 
reports on Form 10-K filed with the Commission throughout the relevant period.  In connection 
with the Issuer’s 2012 and 2013 audits, EY confirmed in writing to the Audit Committee of the 
Issuer, as required by PCAOB Rule 3526, that it was independent of the Issuer. 
 
              EY Learns of Hartford’s and Brehl’s Relationship    
 
       19.    On June 26, 2014, Vice President A made an internal whistleblower complaint to 
the Issuer regarding a possible inappropriate relationship between Brehl and Hartford.  The next 
day, the Issuer instituted an internal investigation, which revealed the romantic relationship 
between Hartford and Brehl.  On June 30, 2014, the Issuer informed EY about its findings.   
        

                                                7 
                                                 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

        20.     EY promptly removed Hartford from the Engagement Team and instituted its own 
internal investigation.  On July 3, 2014, EY determined that because of the romantic relationship 
between Hartford and Brehl it had not been independent of the Issuer.  As a consequence, EY 
withdrew its audit reports on the Issuer’s 2012 and 2013 financial statements and its 2012 and 2013 
reports on the effectiveness of the Issuer’s internal control over financial reporting and terminated 
Hartford’s employment.  Additionally, EY informed the Issuer that EY’s quarterly review 
procedures with respect to the Issuer’s financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2014 
should no longer be relied upon.  After EY withdrew its audit reports, the Issuer hired another 
accounting firm to re-audit the 2012 and 2013 financial statements.  No restatement was made.  
 
E.        LEGAL ANALYSIS  
 
                  Basic Principles of Auditor Independence 
 
        21.     As the Commission has long recognized, “[i]ndependent auditors have an important 
public trust. . . .  It is the auditor’s opinion that furnishes investors with critical assurance that the 
financial statements have been subjected to a rigorous examination by an objective, impartial, and 
skilled professional, and that investors, therefore, can rely on them.”  Revision of the Commission’s 
Auditor Independence Requirements, Exchange Act Rel. No. 43,602, 2000 WL 1726933, at *2 
(Nov. 21, 2000) (“Adopting Release”).  Accordingly, Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires 
each auditor’s report on a public issuer’s financial statements to state “whether the audit was made 
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards” (“GAAS”), including auditing standards 
                                                         6
set forth in PCAOB rules and Commission regulations.         GAAS in turn requires auditors to be 
independent from their clients in both fact and appearance.  PCAOB Rule 3520; PCAOB Auditing 
Standards, Independence, AU § 220.03.  Independence in fact and appea       rance are “equally 
important under the securities laws.”  In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP, Exchange Act Rel. No. 
46,821, 2004 WL 824099, at *30 (Apr. 16, 2004); see also United States v. Arthur Young & Co., 
465 U.S. 805, 819 n.15 (1984) (“It is therefore not enough that financial statements be accurate; the 
public must also perceive them as being accurate.”)  
         
        22.     Circumstances in which an auditor will—and will not—be deemed independent are 
set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X.  Rule 2-01(c) provides a non-exclusive list of specific 
relationships that render an accountant non-independent.  Rule 2-01(b) provides the “general 
standard” for auditor independence, which all auditors must meet even if their conduct does not fall 
within one of the specific prohibitions in Rule 2-01(c).  Under the general standard,  
         
                [t]he Commission will not recognize an accountant as independent, with 
        respect to an audit client, if the accountant is not, or a reasonable investor with 
                                                 
6
        The Commission has stated that for audit reports issued on or after May 24, 2004, the reference in Rule 2-
02(b)(1) to GAAS means the standards of the PCAOB and the applicable Commission regulations, both of which 
require an auditor to be independent of its client.  See, Commission Guidance Regarding the Public Company 
Accounting Oversight Board’s Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1, Exchange Act Rel. No. 
49,708, 2004 WL 1439831, at *2 (May 14, 2004); see also, PCAOB Rule 3520 (“A registered public accounting 
firm and its associated persons must be independent of the firm’s audit client throughout the audit and professional 
engagement period.”); PCAOB Auditing Standards, Independence, AU § 220.03.   
                                                   8 
                                                     
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       knowledge of all relevant facts and circumstances would conclude that the 
       accountant is not, capable of exercising objective and impartial judgment on all 
       issues encompassed within the accountant’s engagement.  In determining whether 
       an accountant is independent, the Commission will consider all relevant 
       circumstances, including all relationships between the accountant and the audit 
       client and not just those relating to reports filed with the Commission.  
 
17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(b) (emphasis added).  This standard applies with equal force to both 
individual accountants and the audit firms in which they practice.  See 17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01(f)(1).    
 
                                         VIOLATIONS 
                
       23.     As a result of the conduct described above, Hartford lacked independence from the 
Issuer under Rule 2-01(b)’s general standard for the 2012 and 2013 financial statement audits and 
the first quarter 2014 financial statement review.  A reasonable investor with knowledge of all 
relevant facts and circumstances concerning Hartford’s personal relationship with Brehl would 
conclude that Hartford was not capable of exercising objective and impartial judgment with respect 
to the audits of the Issuer. 
 
       24.     As a result of the conduct described above, EY lacked independence from the 
Issuer for the 2012 and 2013 financial statement audits and the first quarter 2014 review.  As the 
Commission noted in the Adopting Release for the revisions to Rules 2-01 and 2-02, “[t]he 
definition of ‘accountant’ includes the accounting firm in which the auditor practices.  The 
definition makes clear that an individual accountant’s lack of independence may be attributed to 
the firm.’”  Adopting Release, at *86.   
 
       25.     As a result, EY violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by falsely certifying 
that its reports for the 2012 and 2013 financial statement audits were conducted in accordance with 
PCAOB standards, when in fact the firm lacked independence during each of those audit and 
professional engagement periods. 
 
       26.    Hartford caused EY’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1). 
 
       27.     Hartford and EY also caused the Issuer to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder in 2012 and 2013.  Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 require public 
issuers to file annual reports with the Commission that have been audited by an independent 
accountant.  Hartford and EY caused the Issuer’s violations of Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 
because they each knew or should have known that Hartford’s relationship with Brehl deprived the  
Issuer of an independent auditor.     
 
       28.     Brehl caused and willfully aided and abetted the Issuer’s violation of Section 13(a) 
and Rule 13a-1 thereunder in 2012 and 2013.     
 

                                                9 
                                                  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       29.    Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, and Sections 
4C(a)(2) and (3) of the Exchange Act, permit the Commission to censure a person or deny a person 
the privilege of appearing or practicing before it after finding that person engaged in “improper 
professional conduct” or  “willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any 
provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.”  17 C.F.R. 
201.102(3)(1)(ii) and (iii);  15 U.S.C. § 78d-3(b)(2) and (3). 
 
       30.     Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice and Section 4C(b)(2) of 
the Exchange Act both define negligent “improper professional conduct” to include:  “(i) [a] single 
instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional 
standards” in circumstances in which the “accountant,” in the case of Rule 102(e), or “registered 
public accounting firm or associated person,” in the case of Section 4C(b)(2), “knows, or should 
know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted;” and (ii) [r]epeated instances of unreasonable 
conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
competence to practice before the Commission.”  17 C.F.R. 201.102(3)(1)(iv); 15 U.S.C. § 78d-
3(b)(2). 
 
       31.     The Commission has made clear that auditor independence is always an 
area requiring heightened scrutiny.  See Amendment to Rule 102(e), Commission’s Rules 
of Practice, Securities Act Rel. No.7593, 1998 WL 729201, at *8 (Oct. 19, 1998) 
(“Because of the importance of an accountant’s independence to the integrity of the 
financial reporting system, the Commission has concluded that circumstances that raise 
questions about an accountant’s independence always merit heightened scrutiny.  
Therefore, if an accountant acts highly unreasonably with respect to an independence 
issue, that accountant has engaged in ‘improper professional conduct.’”). 
        
       32.     As a result of the conduct described above, EY, Hartford and Kamienski 
engaged in improper professional conduct. 
        
       33.     As a result of the conduct described above, Brehl willfully aided and 
abetted the Issuer’s violation of Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 thereunder for purposes of 
Rule 102(e)(1)(iii). 
 
 
F.        FINDINGS  
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that (a)  EY violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X;  (b) Hartford caused EY’s violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X; (c) EY 
and Hartford caused the Issuer to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1; (d) 
Brehl caused and willfully aided and abetted the Issuer’s violations of Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder; (e) EY, Hartford and Kamienski engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice; and (f) Brehl’s willful aiding and abetting of the Issuer’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder constituted violations 

                                                10 
                                                  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

of the Federal securities laws and regulations within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(3) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.    
               
                                    EY’s Remedial Efforts 
                                                 
       In determining to accept EY’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by EY.  EY has improved its annual audit and quarterly review independence 
policies and procedures, training, controls, and reporting regarding close personal relationships 
between EY professionals and audit client employees and the impact of such relationships on 
EY’s independence.  Generally, those procedures now require that EY audit engagement team 
members inquire whether management of an audit client or engagement team members are aware 
of any close relationships between any member of the audit engagement team and any 
individuals employed by or associated with the audit client.  They also require audit team 
members to disclose any such relationships and, as appropriate, to certify annually and quarterly 
that they are not participating in or aware of any such relationships.  In addition, EY revised its 
annual and quarterly independence certifications to require EY audit professionals to certify that 
they have consulted with an EY independence leader in circumstances where they have a close 
personal relationship with an audit client employee in an accounting or financial reporting 
oversight role. 
                                                 
                                              IV.   
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.   
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Respondent EY shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act, 
and Rule 13a-1 promulgated thereunder.   
 
       B.     Respondent Hartford shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rule 13a-1 thereunder. 
 
       C.     Respondent Brehl shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder. 
 
       D.     Respondent EY is hereby censured.   
 
       E.     Respondents Hartford, Kamienski and Brehl are denied the privilege of appearing 
or practicing before the Commission as accountants. 
 

                                               11 
                                                 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       F.      After 3 years from the date of this Order for Hartford and Kamienski, and after 
1 year from the date of this Order for Brehl, Respondents Hartford, Kamienski, and Brehl may 
separately request that the Commission consider each of their reinstatements by submitting an 
application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent’s work in his or her practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he or she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as 
                      he or she practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he or she is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              or she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that the respondent will not receive appropriate 
                              supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                              has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his or her responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                              Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                              partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       G.      The Commission will consider an application by Hartford, Kamienski, or Brehl to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his or her state CPA license 
is current and he or she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, 
                                               12 
                                                  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 
 
       H.      Respondent EY shall, within 10 days of issuance of this Order, pay disgorgement of 
$3,168,500 in audit fees, prejudgment interest of $198,151, and a civil money penalty in the 
amount of $1,000,000, for a total of $4,366,651 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Section 21F(g)(3) of the 
Exchange Act.  If timely payment of disgorgement and prejudgment interest is not made, 
additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600, and if timely payment of a 
civil monetary penalty is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.   
 
       I.      Respondents Hartford and Brehl shall, within 10 days of the entry of this 
Order, each pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $25,000 to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject 
to Section 21F(g)(3) of the Exchange Act.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest 
shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 
 
       J.      Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                      which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                      request;  
                
               (2)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
                
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying as 
appropriate either EY, Hartford, or Brehl as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file 
number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to 
Jennifer S. Leete, Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 100 F St., N.E., Washington, DC 20549.   
        

                                               13 
                                                 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

       Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated 
as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the 
deterrent effect of the civil penalties, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, EY, 
Hartford, and Brehl shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or 
reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ 
payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor 
Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry 
of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay 
the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment 
shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of 
the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor 
Action” means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or 
more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
 
                                              V. 
 
       It is further ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Hartford and Brehl, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Hartford or Brehl under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the  
violation by Hartford or Brehl of the Federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under 
such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 
 
 

                                                 14 
                                                   
