---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 72494 / June 27, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3561 / June 27, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15951 
                                          
                                         :              
                                         :        
   In the Matter of                      :      ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                         :      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
      CHRIS CHOI, CPA,                   :      102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                         :      PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
      Respondent.                        :      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                         :              
____________________________________ :            
                                                 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Chris 
Choi (“Respondent” or “Choi”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.1
           
                                              
                                            II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Choi, age 45, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of California.  He held several finance-related positions at Nvidia Corporation 
(“Nvidia”) from 2005 until his resignation in May 2012. 
        
              2.      Nvidia was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation headquartered in 
Santa Clara, California, that developed and sold graphics processors used in various computing 
devices.  At all relevant times, Nvidia’s common stock was registered with the Commission 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and was traded 
on the NASDAQ National Market. 
 
              3.      On April 23, 2014, the Commission filed a complaint against Choi in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in SEC v. Choi (Civil Action 
No. 14-2879-SAS).  On June 3, 2014, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Choi, by 
consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 10(b) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  Choi was also ordered to pay a $30,000.00 civil 
money penalty and was barred for five years from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that 
has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to 
file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleges, among other things, that Choi – 
 while working as an employee of Nvidia in 2009 and 2010 – obtained material nonpublic 
 information about Nvidia’s financial results and relayed that information to his friend Hyung 
 Lim (“Lim”).  By disclosing that information to Lim, Choi breached a fiduciary duty or 
 obligation arising from a similar relationship of trust and confidence.  The complaint further 
 alleges that, in return for payment, Lim relayed Choi’s information to Danny Kuo (“Kuo”), an 
 analyst at Whittier Trust Company (“Whittier Trust”).  Utilizing that information, funds 
 managed by Whittier Trust reaped gains and avoided losses of about $295,000 by trading Nvidia 
 securities in advance of Nvidia’s quarterly earnings announcements on May 7, 2009, November 
 5, 2009, and November 11, 2010.  Kuo also provided Choi’s information to analysts at 
 Diamondback Capital Management LLC, Level Global Investors LP, and Sigma Capital 
 Management LLC, who used this information to generate profits and avoid losses of about $16.2 
 million for hedge funds managed by these three firms. 
 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Choi’s  Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Choi is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
                
       B.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Jill M. Peterson 
                                                     Assistant Secretary 
 

                                                4  
