---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                     

 
 
                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the  
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78711 / August 29, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3797 / August 29, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17510 
 
                                                        
 
                                                        
 
                                                       ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
 
                                                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of  
                                                       PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C  OF 
 
                                                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
THOMAS DULEK , CPA,  
                                                       OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE  
 
                                                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
Respondent .  
                                                                                                
 
                                                       
 
                                                            
 
 
 
                                                 I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Thomas Dulek 
                                                    1 
(“Respondent” or “Dulek”) pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                          2
(“Exchange Act”), and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii)    of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure      any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
               to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
               any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
               violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
               securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunde r.  
 
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

                                                 1 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                  

                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing 
Remedial Sanctions (“Order”) as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
                                                                                3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
        
       A.     SUMMARY 
    
       These proceedings arise out of Dulek’s improper professional conduct as the engagement 
partner of the fiscal year (“FY”) 2011 and 2012 audits of the financial statements of OCZ 
Technology Group, Inc. (“OCZ”), a now-bankrupt manufacturer and seller of computer memory 
storage and power supply devices.  Dulek failed to conduct the audits in accordance with Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board standards.  The deviations from PCAOB standards 
related to the auditing of (a) purported customer marketing programs; (b) OCZ’s inventory 
valuation accounting; (c) year-end sales cut-off; and (d) sales return reserves in FY 2011.   
        
       B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       Thomas Dulek is a certified public accountant in California where he has been licensed 
since 1994.  Dulek was a partner at a PCAOB-registered public accounting firm from December 
2008 through June 2012.  Dulek was the engagement partner responsible for the FY 2011 and 
2012 audits of OCZ.   
 
       C.     RELEVANT ENTITY 
        
       OCZ Technology Group, Inc. was a Delaware corporation formed in 2002 that was 
headquartered in San Jose, California.  As of April 2010, OCZ’s common stock was registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and listed on the NASDAQ 
Capital Market.  OCZ’s common stock was de-listed from NASDAQ as of March 6, 2014.  On 
April 16, 2015, the Commission issued an Order Instituting Proceedings, Making Findings and 
                                                                                                                                                             
 
              The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
              appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
              engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to  Respondent  ’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                     

Revoking Registration of Securities Pursuant to Section 12(j) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934.   
        
       OCZ engaged in fraudulent financial reporting from at least FY 2011 through 2012.  As a 
result of this fraud and other accounting errors, OCZ significantly overstated its revenues and 
                                                                                4
gross profits in FY 2011 and 2012 (as well as in the first quarter of FY 2013).     In October 2013, 
OCZ restated its financial statements, decreasing previously reported revenues and gross profits 
by over $100 million from the second fiscal quarter of FY 2011 through the first fiscal quarter of 
2013 —a nearly 20% reduction in previously reported revenues and a significant reduction in 
previously reported gross profits.   
        
       Shortly after it filed restated financial statements, OCZ filed for bankruptcy protection 
and it has since liquidated its assets and is no longer operating.  On October 6, 2015, the 
Commission filed a complaint against OCZ’s former CEO alleging, among other things, that he 
engaged in a fraud to materially inflate OCZ’s revenues and gross margins and violated the lying 
to accountants rule of the Exchange Act.  The Commission separately charged OCZ’s former 
chief financial officer for certain accounting, disclosure, and internal accounting controls failures 
        5
at OCZ.   
        
       D.      FACTS 
        
       Background  
        
       1.      Dulek was the engagement partner on the FY 2011 and 2012 audits of OCZ’s 
financial statements.  As the engagement partner, Dulek had overall responsibility for the 
conduct of the audits, including supervision of team members and compliance with PCAOB 
standards.   
        
       2.      Dulek signed off on the FY 2011 and 2012 audits and caused the issuance of audit 
reports for those years containing an opinion that OCZ’s financial statements were presented 
fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles 
(“GAAP”).  The audit reports also stated that the audits were conducted in accordance with 
PCAOB standards. 
        
       3.      OCZ’s financial statements in FY 2011 and 2012, in fact, contained numerous 
departures from GAAP that resulted in the significant overstatement of the company’s revenues 
and gross profits.  Moreover, as outlined below, the audits were not conducted in accordance 
with PCAOB standards.   

                                                 
4
       OCZ’s fiscal year ended at the end of the month of February.    

5
       See Litigation Release No. 23379 (Oct. 6, 2015). 

                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                 

        
       Failure to Audit OCZ’s Customer Based Programs (CBPs) in Accordance with 
       PCAOB Standards in FY 2011 and 2012  
 
       4.     Historically, OCZ had provided customers with several types of sales discounts, 
which, consistent with GAAP, were reported as reductions to revenue.  In addition to these 
programs, OCZ enacted a program called “customer based programs” or “CBPs.”  Pursuant to 
the program, OCZ would purportedly offer short-term marketing reimbursement programs to its 
customers.  OCZ would pay for the purported marketing performed by customers by providing 
credits to its customers that they could apply to their account receivable balances (“CBP credits”).  
After enacting the program, OCZ began pushing its salespeople to provide CBPs to customers in 
lieu of other types of sales discounts.  Customers rarely if ever performed marketing activities 
equal to the value of the credits they received and at times did not perform any marketing 
activities at all.  Rather, CBPs were used as a mechanism through which OCZ provided sales 
discounts to customers, which should have been accounted for as revenue reductions, but were 
instead improperly recorded as marketing expenses.  Accordingly, the CBP credits did not 
properly reduce OCZ’s revenues and gross profits as they should have. 
        
       5.     As part of its restatement, OCZ reclassified the CBP credits as reductions to 
revenues. 
        
       6.     GAAP requires that consideration provided to a customer be recorded as a 
reduction of revenue unless two criteria are met:  (1) the vendor receives an identifiable benefit 
for consideration that could have been obtained from a party other than the purchaser of its 
product; and (2) the vendor can reasonably estimate the fair value of the benefit.  (See ASC 605-
50-45).  Dulek did not design adequate procedures for the engagement team to perform to obtain 
audit evidence to verify that either of these criteria was satisfied.   
        
       7.     In FY 2011 and 2012, the engagement team’s testing with respect to CBPs 
focused on whether OCZ had recorded sufficient liabilities to cover the CBP commitments it had 
made to customers.  Dulek did not have the engagement team sufficiently test whether OCZ 
received an identifiable benefit from its customers or whether OCZ could reasonably estimate 
the value of any such benefit.  For example, the engagement team did not confirm with any 
customers that marketing had actually been performed in exchange for CBP credits or the extent 
of any such marketing.  Nor did the engagement team test the value of the marketing that OCZ 
purportedly received from customers in connection with any program to ensure that it equaled 
the value of the credit given to the customer.  Thus, insufficient testing was performed to 
determine whether OCZ had properly characterized CBP credits as marketing expenses in its 
income statements.   
        
       8.     The failure to perform adequate audit testing to determine whether OCZ was 
properly accounting for CBP credits as marketing expenses was unreasonable in light of the 
following risks relating to CBPs, among others, of which Dulek was or should have been aware: 
        

                                               4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                     

               a.  The audit work papers identified revenue as being a high risk area in 2011 and 
                   2012.  
                    
               b.  Revenues and gross margins were metrics about which OCZ management 
                   regularly put out guidance in documents filed with the Commission that were 
                   reviewed by Dulek.  These metrics were directly affected by OCZ’s 
                   classification of marketing and discount programs.  
                    
               c.  Dulek drafted a June 2011 letter to OCZ’s Board noting that OCZ had no 
                   written “accounting policies and methodology used in determining the sales 
                   and marketing programs accruals (and related income statement 
                   classification).”  Dulek similarly reviewed a FY 2012 audit engagement team 
                   memo to OCZ questioning the controls in place to ensure that OCZ was 
                   properly accounting for sales programs, such as CBPs.  In answering the 
                   question, management did not identify any specific controls to address the 
                   issue. 
        
       9.      By not planning or performing appropriate audit procedures to determine that 
CBPs were properly accounted for in OCZ’s income statements, Dulek violated AS No. 15.4, 
which requires that auditors “must plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient 
                                                                                  6
appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion.”   
        

                                                 
6
       The provision superseded AU     § 326 for audits of fiscal years beginning on or after 
December 15, 2010.   AU  § 326 .22 , which was effective during the FY 2011 audit of OCZ’s 
financial statements, provides, in relevant part, that “[t]he independent auditor’s objective is to 
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to provide him or her with a reasonable basis for 
forming an opinion.”   

                                                 5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                 

       10.    Dulek also failed to exercise the requisite due care in auditing OCZ’s CBPs 
because he did not exercise appropriate skepticism or obtain sufficient audit evidence in 
concluding that CBP credits were properly characterized as marketing expenses.  Among other 
things, due professional care “requires the independent auditor to plan and perform his or her 
work with due professional care.  Due professional care imposes a responsibility upon each 
professional within an independent auditor’s organization to observe the standards of field work 
and reporting.”  AU § 230.02.  It also “requires the auditor to exercise professional skepticism.  
Professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment 
of audit evidence.  The auditor uses the knowledge, skill, and ability called for by the profession 
of public accounting to diligently perform, in good faith and with integrity, the gathering and 
objective evaluation of evidence.”  AU § 230.07.  Moreover, PCAOB Standards provide that 
“[i]n exercising professional skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than 
persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest.”  AU § 230.09.  And “[t]he 
independent auditor’s objective is to obtain sufficient appropriate evidential matter to provide 
him or her with a reasonable basis for forming an opinion.”  AU § 230.11. 
        
        
       Failure to Audit OCZ’s Inventory Accounting in Accordance with PCAOB 
       Standards in FY 2011 and 2012 
        
       11.    In valuing its inventory in FY 2011 and 2012, OCZ included only raw materials 
in inventory costs—it did not include the labor and overhead costs relating to the manufacture of 
those goods.  This practice was a departure from GAAP, which requires that all direct and 
indirect acquisition and production expenditures be included in inventory cost.  (ASC 330-10-
30).  OCZ’s failure to include labor and overhead in its inventory costs resulted in OCZ’s 
material understatement of costs of goods sold and inventory and overstatement of gross profits 
in FY 2011 and 2012.   
        
       12.    The audit work papers indicate that labor and overhead will generally be included 
in the valuation of inventory.  The work papers, however, further state that OCZ did not follow 
this standard practice and, instead, expensed manufacturing labor and overhead and only 
included the costs of raw material in the costs recorded in valuing inventory. 
        
       13.    At the time of the FY 2011 and 2012 audits, Dulek had reviewed evidence that, at 
a minimum, should have called into question OCZ’s failure to include labor and overhead costs 
in inventory.  For example, OCZ’s FY 2012 Form 10-K, which Dulek reviewed, stated that OCZ 
was “a leader in the design, manufacturing, and distribution of high performance and reliable 
Solid-State Drives (“SSDs”)” and “OCZ designs and manufactures SSDs in a variety of form 
factors and interfaces.”  (emphases added).  OCZ made similar representations concerning its 
manufacturing capabilities in its FY 2011 Form 10-K, which Dulek reviewed. 
        
       14.    PCAOB standards require that audit documentation should “[s]upport the basis 
for the auditor’s conclusions concerning every relevant financial statement assertion” and 
indicate “the procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached” with respect to 
relevant financial statement assertions.  AS Nos. 3.5(b) and 3.6.  Dulek failed to ensure that the 
engagement team adequately documented any information it received or analyzed concerning the 
magnitude of OCZ’s labor and overhead costs, or any procedures the team may have undertaken 
to obtain and analyze such information, as required by AS Nos. 3.5(b) and 3.6. 

                                               6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                     

        
       15.    In addition, by failing to obtain a proper understanding of OCZ’s business, as is 
                                                           7
required by AS No. 12.7, among other auditing standards,     and failing to identify and rectify 
OCZ’s clear GAAP departure, Dulek failed to exercise the requisite due care and skepticism as 
required by AU § 230.  
        
       Failure to Audit Sales Cut-Off in Accordance with PCAOB Standards in FY 2011 
       and 2012 
        
       16.    OCZ recognized revenues upon product shipment, even though its shipping terms 
with most customers provided that OCZ held title to those products until the customer took 
delivery.  OCZ’s revenue recognition practice was inconsistent with GAAP, as the company had 
not earned the revenue until the product was delivered.  (See ASC 605-10-25-1).  
        
       17.    As part of its restatement, OCZ concluded that sales of goods that were in transit 
at the end of its fiscal year had been improperly recorded as revenues in that fiscal year 
(concluding that the revenues should have been recorded in the subsequent fiscal year).   
        
       18.    The performance of cut-off testing—a test to determine whether sales recorded 
near the end of the fiscal year were recorded in the proper period—is a typical audit procedure.   
        
       19.    In assessing the appropriateness of the timing of revenue recognition, shipping 
terms are a critical consideration as they determine the point at which title to the product, and 
thus the risks and rewards of ownership, has legally passed to the buyer.   
        
       20.    In connection with the FY 2011 audit, the audit work papers, which Dulek signed 
off on, do not indicate that any shipping terms were reviewed to confirm that the tested sales 
were recorded in the proper period.  
        
       21.    In connection with the FY 2012 audit, the audit work papers, which Dulek 
reviewed, document the shipping terms.  However, because the shipping terms with most 
customers provided that title would pass on product delivery, the engagement team relied on so-
called “title transfer letters” as evidence that the shipping terms of the relevant sales had been 
altered from the terms that otherwise applied to the sales.  The letters were conceived by OCZ to 
purportedly allow it to recognize revenue upon shipment without changing the economic terms 
of the sales.  The only letter included in the audit work papers, which was undated, stated that 
OCZ would continue to assume “all risks prior to the point that the goods are ready for unloading 
by the buyer.”  This indicated that the risk of ownership did not pass to the customer upon 
shipment and, therefore, revenue recognition would not be appropriate until the product was 
delivered.  Nevertheless, Dulek concluded that the title transfer letters could alter the shipping 
terms that otherwise applied to the sales to allow revenue recognition upon shipment rather than 
                                                 
7
       AS No. 12.7 provides, in relevant part, that “[t]he auditor should obtain an understanding of the 
company and its environment (“understanding of the company”) to understand the events, conditions, and 
company activities that might reasonably be expected to have a significant effect on the risks of material 
misstatement.  Obtaining an understanding of the company includes understanding: . . . The nature of the 
company.”  AU § 311, which was effective during the FY 2011 audit, similarly provides, among other 
things, that “[t]he auditor should obtain a knowledge of matters that relate to the nature of the entity’s 
business, its organization, and its operating characteristics.”  AU § 311.07. 

                                                 7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                 

on the date of delivery. 
 
       22.    In auditing sales cut-off, Dulek failed to properly document the basis for the 
conclusions that sales were recorded in the proper period in accordance with AS Nos. 3.5(b) and 
3.6. 
        
       23.    Dulek also failed to exercise the requisite due professional care and skepticism, as 
is required by AU § 230, in failing to obtain the audit evidence to support the conclusions that 
sales were recorded in the proper period.  See also AS No. 15 (in connection with the FY 2012 
audit) and AU § 326 (in connection with the FY 2011 audit). 
 
       Failure to Take Appropriate Steps to Correct OCZ’s GAAP Departure with 
       Respect to its Accounting for Sales Returns in FY 2011  
 
       24.    Under certain circumstances, OCZ permitted customers to return products they 
purchased.  GAAP requires that for sales made with a right of return, revenue reported in the 
income statement “shall be reduced to reflect estimated returns.”  (ASC 605-15-45).  OCZ 
improperly recorded only the gross margin on estimated product returns as a reduction in 
revenues.  For example, if OCZ expected $100 of goods to be returned, and had gross margins of 
20%, OCZ recorded only $20 of sales returns accruals (which reduced net revenues), instead of 
the full $100 of goods it expected to be returned.   
        
       25.    OCZ’s practice was documented in the FY 2011 audit work papers, which state: 
“OCZ reserves the gross margin portion of the sales price (20 percent).” 
        
       26.    Nevertheless, Dulek failed to note that this was contrary to GAAP and evaluate 
the effect on OCZ’s financial statements, and there is no indication in the audit work papers that 
the issue was brought to OCZ’s attention.   
        
       27.    Dulek’s failure to recognize the GAAP departure in the audit work papers 
demonstrates a lack of due care as required by AU § 230.  
        
       Failure to Adequately Supervise Staff  
 
       28.    PCAOB standards require auditors to supervise the audit engagement “so that the 
work is performed as directed and supports the conclusions reached.”  AS No. 10.2.  “[T]he 
engagement partner is responsible for proper supervision of the work of engagement team 
members and for compliance with PCAOB standards.”  AS No. 10.3.  The engagement partner 
should inform staff members of their responsibilities, including, among other things: (1) the 
objectives of the procedures, (2) the nature, timing, and extent of the procedures to be performed, 
and (3) any relevant issues that could affect the performance, or evaluation of the results, of the 
procedures.  AS No. 10.5.  In determining the extent of supervision, the engagement partner 
should take into account, among other things, “[t]he risks of material misstatement.”  AS No. 
10.6.  Additionally, the engagement partner should review the work of engagement team 
members “to evaluate whether: (1) [t]he work was performed and documented; (2) [t]he 
objectives of the procedures were achieved; and (3) [t]he results of the work support the 
conclusions reached.”  AS No. 10.5. 
        

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                     

       29.    As described further above, in supervising the FY 2011 and 2012 OCZ audits, 
Dulek did not ensure that the work of the audit team supported the conclusions reached.  Dulek 
also failed to properly evaluate that the documentation obtained by the audit team supported the 
conclusions reached by the team.  He also failed to properly take account of the risk of material 
misstatement in determining the extent of his supervision.  Accordingly, he violated PCAOB AS 
       8
No. 10.     
 
       FINDINGS 
        
       30.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Dulek engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice by engaging in repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct indicating a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Dulek’s Offer.  
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Respondent Dulek is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   
 
       B.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                       review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                       the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                       Respondent’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                       reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                       for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                       practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                       Commission that: 
      

                                                 
8
       AS  No. 10 superseded AU    § 311 for audits of fiscal years beginning on or after December 
15, 2010.  AU § 311, which wa  s effective during the FY 2011 audit of OCZ’s financial statements, 
provided, in relevant part, that (a) “Supervision involves directing the efforts of assistants who are 
involved in accomplishing the objectives of the audit and determining whether those objectives 
were accomplished” (AU § 311.11); and (b) “The work performed by each assistant should be 
reviewed to determine whether it was adequately performed and to evaluate whether the results are 
consistent with the conclusions to be presented in the auditor’s report.”  (AU § 311.13).  Dulek 
failed to satisfy these standards with respect to the FY 2011 audit.  

                                                 9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                                   

                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                              respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that the Respondent will not receive appropriate 
                              supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
                              has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                              Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                              partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
                               
                                                            Brent J. Fields 
                                                            Secretary 

                                               10 
