---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                             
 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 78341 / July 15, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3789 / July 15, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17345 
 
                                             
In the Matter of                            ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
                                            DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      The Phoenix Companies, Inc.           SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
Respondent.                                 FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
                                            AND-DESIST ORDER AND PENALTIES   
 
 
       
                                           I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against The Phoenix Companies, Inc. 
(“Phoenix” or “Respondent”). 
                                             
                                          II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings  herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
Making Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order and Penalties (“Order”), as set forth 
below.   
                                  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                               III. 
 
                                                                                 1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                           Summary 

       1.      On November 8, 2012, Phoenix, a public company with shares traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange, announced that its previously issued audited financial statements included 
in Forms 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 could no longer be relied 
upon and would be restated, along with the unaudited financial statements for quarterly periods 
included in Forms 10-Q going back to March 31, 2011.  Phoenix also warned that “[m]anagement 
will likely conclude that there are one or more material weaknesses” in its disclosure controls and 
procedures and internal controls over financial reporting. 

       2.      As Phoenix worked through the restatement process of reviewing its previous 
filings and trying to correct its financials, it discovered, in consultation with its auditors, dozens of 
additional errors, including basic errors in its calculations, assumptions, and application of 
accounting guidance to complex insurance products.  Some of the errors were due to improper 
accounting determinations, while others reflected carelessness in the implementation of Phoenix’s 
                   2
accounting systems.     

       3.      On April 1, 2014, Phoenix filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
2012 (the “Restatement 10-K”), and in this filing Phoenix restated and amended its consolidated 
financial statements for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010.  There were several 
categories of identified errors in the Restatement 10-K, including: 1) Accounting for Certain 
Universal Life Type Products; 2) Loss Recognition; 3) Fixed Indexed Annuities; and 4) Derivative 
Valuation. Additionally, Phoenix identified several material weaknesses in internal controls over 
financial reporting. 

                                                 
1
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
                                                                                                  
2
 These errors caused further delay in Phoenix’s filing of its restated numbers, additional Forms 
10-K, and additional Forms 10-Q.  On March 21, 2014, the Commission instituted settled cease 
and desist proceedings which imposed penalties and undertakings for Phoenix to become current 
in its delinquent periodic filings by November 2014.  See The Phoenix Companies, Inc. and PHL 
Variable Insurance Company, Exchange Act Release No. 71768 (Mar. 21, 2014).  After Phoenix 
was unable to meet certain of the deadlines imposed in the undertakings, the Commission 
amended its March 21, 2014 order by extending the undertakings deadlines to December 2014 
and imposing additional penalties, including increasing penalties should Phoenix further delay its 
filings.  See The Phoenix Companies, Inc. and PHL Variable Insurance Company, Exchange Act 
Release No. 72738 (Aug. 1, 2014).  Pursuant to the original and amended orders, Phoenix paid 
$1.1 million in civil penalties to the Commission.   
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
        4.      Based on the foregoing, and by the respective acts and omissions described below, 
Respondent violated the reporting, internal accounting controls, and books-and-records provisions 
of the federal securities laws. 

                                             Respondent 
                                                     
        5.      The Phoenix Companies, Inc. (“Phoenix”) is a Delaware corporation located in 
Hartford, Connecticut.  Phoenix is a holding company with three insurance company subsidiaries, 
Phoenix Life Insurance Company, Phoenix Life and Annuity Company, and PHL Variable, which 
sell life insurance and annuity products.  On June 20, 2016, Phoenix merged with a subsidiary of 
Nassau Reinsurance Group Holdings, L.P. (“Nassau Re”) and became a privately held company 
and a wholly owned subsidiary of Nassau Re.  Before the merger, Phoenix common stock had 
traded on the New York Stock Exchange (symbol “PNX”) and Phoenix bonds had traded on the 
New York Stock Exchange (symbol “PFX”). 

                                                 Facts 

    A.  Phoenix’s Accounting Errors and Impact 

        6.      On April 1, 2014, Phoenix filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
2012 (the “Restatement 10-K”), including restated and amended numbers for the 2010 and 2011 
            3
fiscal years.   A summary of the impact of the restatement (in millions of dollars) is contained in 
the table below. 

         
                                         FY 2012   FY 2011   FY 2010 
          Original income (loss) from 
        continuing operations                                                         
         before income taxes ($ mm)      (156.0)          32.0       (34.7) 
        Restated and amended  
         income (loss) from 
        continuing operations                                                         
         before income taxes  ($ mm)        N/A            2.7       (41.6) 
        Percent decrease in income 
        (loss) from continuing 
        operations before income 
        taxes ($ mm)                        N/A           92%         20% 

        Original stockholders'                                                   
        equity ($ mm)                     510.5        1,126.2     1,155.5  

        Restated stockholders'                                                       
        equity ($ mm)                       N/A          695.7       800.4  

                                                 
3
  Phoenix did not file ame nded Forms 10   - K with restated numbers for its fiscal years 2010 and 
2011.   
 
                                                   3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
       7.      In the Restatement 10-K, Phoenix identified several categories of restated figures, 
including: 1) Accounting for Certain Universal Life Type Products; 2) Loss Recognition; 3) Fixed 
Indexed Annuities; and 4) Derivative Valuation. 

   B.  Errors in Phoenix’s Accounting for Universal Life Insurance Products 

       8.      Certain errors discovered during the restatement process related to accounting for 
Phoenix’s universal life insurance products.  These errors were caused by Phoenix’s improper 
application of the accounting guidance which was designed to take into account potential future 
losses on certain insurance products, resulting in a material decrease in net income for fiscal years 
2010 and 2011.   

       9.      Phoenix’s universal life products are a form of life insurance with a savings account 
component.  Policyholders pay flexible premiums into the savings account, and the account is 
credited interest at a predetermined rate.  Upon death of the policyholder, the beneficiary receives 
the face value of the policy or the account value, whichever is greater.  Over the life of the policy, 
Phoenix collects fees from the account for administrative expenses and the “cost of the life 
insurance” (“COI”).  One of Phoenix’s standard universal life products was the Phoenix 
Accumulator Universal Life (“PAUL”) policy.  A PAUL policy was designed as a traditional 
universal life policy, but would generate higher COI fees in the early years, and lower COI fees in 
the later years. 

       10.    Starting around 2004, Phoenix began offering a universal life insurance product 
with a “secondary guarantee” (“SGUL”).  Typically, if a universal life policyholder’s account 
value falls to $0, the policy lapses, because there are no more funds to pay the administrative fees 
and the COI fees.  The secondary guarantee effectively provided a no-lapse guarantee, as long as 
certain criteria were met by the policyholder.  Should the account value fall to $0, Phoenix would 
keep the policy in force while receiving no additional fees.  In addition, Phoenix offered certain 
riders, or add-ons, for its SGUL and PAUL policies, including an extended life rider (“Extended 
Life Rider”), which charged no premium once a policyholder reached age 100.  This again meant 
that Phoenix would offer life insurance and collect no fees for it, should the policyholder live past 
100. 

       11.    Phoenix determined that, by design, the COI feature of the PAUL policies, the 
secondary guarantees of the SGUL policies, and the Extended Life Rider all were expected to 
result in profits in earlier years and subsequent losses in later years.  In this scenario, the relevant 
accounting guidance, ASC 944-605-25-8, requires a liability to be established to account for the 
future losses.  ASC 944-40-35-9 through 11 requires this liability to be adjusted using current 
estimates at each balance sheet date.  During the restatement, Phoenix determined that the 
accounting guidance required that this liability be established with regard to the product’s 
insurance “benefit features”—not with regard to the product generally, as had previously been 
done.  Phoenix also determined that the higher COI fees in early years and lower COI fees in the 
later years for the PAUL contracts did not qualify as a “benefit feature,” and therefore a liability 
should not have been established for this aspect of the contract.  In its restatement, Phoenix stated 

                                                 4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
that it did not properly evaluate certain benefit features and, therefore, did not establish the 
required reserves. 

       12.    Phoenix was also required to perform a separate premium deficiency analysis under 
ASC 944-60.  In this analysis, Phoenix was required to determine whether the premiums would 
cover the costs of the contracts.  Phoenix tested the premium deficiency for each Phoenix 
subsidiary and on a consolidated basis.  Phoenix determined that no premium deficiency existed.  
ASC 944-60 also requires a profits followed by losses analysis for each Phoenix line of business 
and on a consolidated basis.  Phoenix did not historically perform the profits followed by losses 
analysis prescribed by ASC 944-60.  

       13.    A Phoenix actuary analyzing the cash flows in the fall of 2013 as part of the 
restatement review noticed that a pattern of profits followed by losses existed in Phoenix’s 
universal life business, and determined that the profits followed by losses analysis should have 
historically been performed.   

       14.    In its pre-restatement application of ASC 944-605-25-8, Phoenix analyzed profits 
followed by losses over a 30 year period.  Phoenix had set this length of time to match the 30 years 
over which its policies’ deferred acquisition costs were amortized.   As part of the restatement, 
Phoenix revisited the assumption, and determined it was appropriate to extend the period of 
analysis, capturing additional losses in the later years. 

       15.    The universal life products’ benefit feature liability decreased when the restated 
numbers were calculated, but this decrease was more than offset by the increase in the premium 
deficiency liability.  For the 2011 fiscal year, these errors increased liabilities by $179.4 million 
and decreased stockholder’s equity by $122.1 million.  The errors also decreased net income by 
$34.0 million for the 2011 fiscal year (135% of reported income from continuing operations before 
income taxes).  For the 2010 fiscal year, these errors decreased net income by $46.7 million (106% 
of reported income from continuing operations before income taxes).  By far, the largest impact on 
Phoenix’s 2010 and 2011 financials were the “Accounting for Certain Universal Life Type 
Products” errors.       

   C.  Errors in Phoenix’s Fixed Indexed Annuity Valuation 

       16.    In addition to the universal life products discussed above, Phoenix sold a separate 
account product called a fixed indexed annuity (“Annuity”).  Annuities are insurance products 
which offer an income stream to the purchaser, typically for life.  At the inception of the contract, 
Annuity purchasers fund an account, often through a lump sum premium payment, which is then 
credited with interest based on a reference index (e.g., LIBOR) sometimes subject to a cap and 
floor, over the life of the Annuity.  Phoenix sold optional riders for an additional fee, including a 
guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider.  This rider would assure the annuitant a minimal 
periodic income even if the Annuity account value were to fall to $0. 

       17.    In the third quarter of 2011, Phoenix set up an internal valuation system to value its 
Annuity contracts.  When Phoenix made the transition to this system, it erroneously included the 
fees it earned from purchases of the guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider, while 
                                                 5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
excluding the rider’s costs, when estimating its Annuities’ gross profits, which caused a $2.9 
million overstatement of earnings for the 2011 fiscal year.  Phoenix determined that the inclusion 
                                                                                      4
of the rider’s fees and exclusion of rider’s costs was not in accordance with GAAP,     and Phoenix 
ultimately concluded that it did not have in place properly designed internal accounting  controls, 
which should have caught this discrepancy.     

       18.     As part of the restatement process, Phoenix scrutinized the internal valuation 
system’s modelling capabilities and determined that the system lacked the functionality to 
accurately value the Annuities, ultimately finding at least 30 errors within the valuation system 
relating to a variety of Annuities calculations.   

       19.    These errors included incorrect assumptions regarding policyholder behavior, such 
as assuming static lapse rates, which were not adjusted based on account value, and assuming 
withdrawals when it would be disadvantageous for the policyholder to do so.  The valuation 
system also only projected out the Annuities 30 years for valuation purposes, even though certain 
policyholders’ expected lifetimes were longer.     

       20.    Once restated, the identified fixed indexed annuity errors cumulatively caused a 
$4.2 million decrease in net income before taxes for fiscal year-end 2011 (13% of reported income 
from continuing operations before income taxes).  Errors related to the Annuity products for the 
2010 period resulted in a $2.3 million net loss (7% of reported income from continuing operations 
before income taxes) and were classified as “Other Actuarial Errors” in the Restatement 10-K. 

   D.  Error in Phoenix’s Reinsurance Accounting 

       21.    Insurance companies often enter into reinsurance contracts to share the risk inherent 
in a block of policies.  Generally, these contracts require the reinsurer to pay a portion (or all) of 
the expenses associated with a policy or block of policies and the original insurers to pay the 
reinsurer compensation for entering into the contract.  Phoenix entered into two such contracts with 
a reinsurer in 2008 and 2009, for certain term life policies.  These reinsurance contracts allowed 
Phoenix to reduce its risks associated with its term life business. 

       22.    Phoenix did not perform a premium deficiency analysis on the underlying block of 
term life policies subject to the reinsurance contracts, as required by the relevant accounting 
guidance, ASC 944-60.  Phoenix assumed that the reinsurer had taken on all of the expenses 
associated with the term life business.  However, the terms of the reinsurance contract only 
provided for the payment of a portion of these expenses.  A subsequent analysis performed as part 
of the restatement identified a premium deficiency and required Phoenix to establish a liability on 
its books.  This error had the impact of decreasing net income by $10.6 million for fiscal year-end 
2010 (31% of reported income from continuing operations before income taxes) and $7.6 million 
for fiscal year-end 2011 (24% of reported income from continuing operations before income 
taxes).    

                                                 
4
  ASC 944  - 60 - 30.  
 
                                                  6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
       23.    Similar to the Annuity products discussed above, Phoenix also identified errors in 
the way that its valuation system modelled its reinsurance contracts.  Specifically, the valuation 
system did not have functionality to model multiple reinsurance treaties for a given policy.  Once 
restated, all identified Phoenix’s reinsurance accounting errors caused a $3.3 million decrease in 
net income for fiscal year-end 2011 (10% of reported income from continuing operations before 
income taxes), and a $6.3 million increase in net income for fiscal year-end 2010 (18% of reported 
income from continuing operations before income taxes). 

   E.  Error in Phoenix’s Accounting for Derivatives 

       24.    To hedge certain risks, Phoenix purchased a number of derivatives from, and 
entered into certain swap agreements with, investment banks.  Pre-restatement, Phoenix valued 
these derivatives and swap agreements without taking a credit valuation adjustment (“CVA”), even 
                                                   5
though one was required under ASC 815 and 820        to take account of the counterparty risk for these 
derivatives.  The CVA is an allowance which accounts for the default risk of the counterparty.     

       25.     As a result of this error, Phoenix’s net income before taxes decreased by $12.4 
million for fiscal year-end 2011 (39% of reported net income before taxes), and $4.2 million for 
fiscal year-end 2010 (12% of reported net income before taxes).   

                                             Violations 

       26.    As a result of the conduct described above, Phoenix violated Section 13(a) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       27.    Also  as  a  result  of  the  conduct  described  above,  Phoenix  violated  Section 
13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, 
records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions 
and dispositions of their assets. 
        
       28.    Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Phoenix violated Section 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a 
system of internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles. 
        
                                

                                                 
5
  ASC 815  - 20 - 35 - 14 and 820- 10 - 35 - 17 through 10- 35 - 18A.   
                                                  7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
                                 Phoenix’s Remedial Efforts 

       In   determining   to   accept   the  Offer,   the   Commission   considered   remedial   efforts 
undertaken by Phoenix and cooperation afforded to the Commission staff. 

                                             IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Phoenix’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.     Pursuant  to  Section  21C  of  the  Exchange  Act,  Phoenix  cease  and  desist  from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act, and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       B.     Respondent shall, within ninety (90) days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money  penalty  in  the  amount  of  $600,000  to  the  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  for 
transfer  to  the  general  fund  of  the  United  States  Treasury  subject  to  Exchange  Act  Section 
21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
§ 3717.   

Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 

              (1)    Respondent  may  transmit  payment  electronically  to  the  Commission, 
                     which  will  provide  detailed  ACH  transfer/Fedwire  instructions  upon 
                     request; 

              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  

              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  

              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK  73169 

Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying Phoenix 
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the 
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Scott W. Friestad, Associate Director, 
Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, 
D.C. 20549-5010. 

                                              8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
       C.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall 
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such 
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount 
of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
investors  based  on  substantially  the  same  facts  as  alleged  in  the  Order  instituted  by  the 
Commission in this proceeding. 

        

       By the Commission. 

                                                   Brent J. Fields 
                                                   Secretary 

 

                                               9  
