---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77997 / June 6, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3777 / June 6, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17277 
 
 
                                                    
In the Matter of                                 ORDER INSTITUTING 
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -
      SILBERSTEIN UNGAR PLLC,                    AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS, 
      RONALD N. SILBERSTEI N, CPA                PURSUANT TO SECTIONS  4C AND 
      JOEL M. UNGAR,  CPA                        21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      SETH A. GORBACK , AND                      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934,  AND 
      DAVID A. KOBYLAREK,  CPA                   RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
Respondent s.                                                 
                                                  
                                                                                
                                                                  
                                               
 
                                          I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted against Silberstein Ungar PLLC (or “the firm”), Ronald N. Silberstein, CPA, Joel M. 
Ungar, CPA, Seth A. Gorback, and David A. Kobylarek, CPA (collectively “Respondents”) 
pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and 
                        
Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii)of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   
                                            
                                          II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings  
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents consent 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to 
Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-
and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                    1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds       that   
 
                                              Summary 
                                       
       These proceedings arise out of deficient audits of financial statements of nine issuer clients 
by the Respondents, who issued audit reports that failed to comply with Public Company 
                                                              2
Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) auditing standards.   During the audits in question, each 
of the Respondents repeatedly engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Exchange Act 
Section 4C and Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice that resulted in violations of 
applicable professional standards and demonstrated a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.  Specifically, the Respondents failed to comply with some or all of the following 
requirements in PCAOB standards:  (1) obtain sufficient appropriate evidence to provide a 
reasonable basis for the audit opinion; (2) evaluate the reasonableness of accounting estimates 
made by management in the context of the financial statements taken as a whole and adequately 
document the corresponding audit procedures performed; (3) properly document procedures 
relating to the evaluation of the adequacy of disclosure in financial statements; (4) obtain 
appropriate engagement quality reviews; (5) properly examine journal entries for evidence of 
possible misstatement due to fraud and document the performance of journal entry testing; (6) 
document how the firm overcame the presumption to send accounts receivable confirmations; (7) 
perform analytical procedures related to revenue; (8) properly supervise the audit; and (9) exercise 
due professional care and professional skepticism. 
 
       In addition, Silberstein Ungar violated, and Silberstein, Ungar, Gorback, and Kobylarek 
willfully aided and abetted and caused the firm’s violations of, Exchange Act Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X when Silberstein Ungar claimed in each of its audit reports that it complied with 
PCAOB standards when it had not.  Based upon Silberstein Ungar’s deficient audit reports being 
included in issuers’ filings, the Respondents also willfully aided and abetted and caused issuers’ 
violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 15(d) and Rules 13a-1 and 15d-1 thereunder. 
 

                                                 
1
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers and are not binding on any other person or entity in 
this or any other proceeding. 
2
  The relevant period involves audits conducted for the year ended August 31, 2012 through the year ended 
Febru ary 28, 2013.  References to PCOAB auditing standards refer to the standards in effect during the relevant 
period . 
                                                    
                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                         Respondents 

       1.      Silberstein Ungar PLLC.  Silberstein Ungar is a Michigan limited liability 
company and CPA firm located in Bingham Farms, Michigan.  The firm previously represented 
that its specialties included audits of issuers and those companies planning to go public at a later 
date.  During the relevant period, the firm was registered with the PCAOB, the Canadian Public 
                                                                   3
Accountability Board, and the International Franchise Association.     In July 2014, Silberstein 
Ungar’s client base was purchased by another CPA firm.  Silberstein Ungar still exists but does not 
currently conduct work auditing public companies.  
        
       2.      Ronald N. Silberstein.  Age 59.  Silberstein holds an active CPA license in 
Michigan and joined the firm now known as Silberstein Ungar in July 2007.  Silberstein served as 
the engagement partner for all but one of the audits under review.  Silberstein served as a non-
equity partner at another CPA firm until August 2015.   
        
       3.      Joel M. Ungar.  Age 54.  Ungar holds an active CPA license in Michigan and co-
founded Ungar & Associates in 2003 (later known as Silberstein Ungar).  He served as the 
engagement quality reviewer for seven of the audits under review in this investigation.  Ungar 
served as the engagement partner for the Issuer C audit.  He left the firm in November 2013. 
        
       4.      Seth A. Gorback.  Age 37.  Gorback began working at Silberstein Ungar in 
January 2008 as a staff auditor before becoming a manager in March 2010, a non-equity partner in 
August 2011, and an equity partner in or around August 2012.  Although Gorback was a partner in 
the firm at the time of the audits, he did not serve as the engagement partner in any of the relevant 
audits and functioned in a role more analogous to that of engagement manager on four of the audits 
under review.  Gorback is currently self-employed. 
                
       5.      David A. Kobylarek.  Age 65.  Holds an active CPA license in Michigan.  
Kobylarek began working at Silberstein Ungar in December 2007 as a senior accountant before 
becoming a manager in March 2010, a non-equity partner in August 2011, and an equity partner in 
or around August 2012.  Although Kobylarek was a partner in the firm at the time of the audits, he 
did not serve as the engagement partner in any of the relevant audits, functioned in a role more 
analogous to that of engagement manager on six of the audits under review and prepared and 
reviewed certain audit work papers for one additional audit under review.  Kobylarek is currently 
retired.   
                
                                     Other Relevant Entities 
 
       6.      Issuer A is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in South 
Africa.  Issuer A’s business includes the daily rental of vehicles to business and leisure customers 
through company-owned stores in the country of South Africa.  During the relevant period, Issuer 
A was a reporting company pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the 
                                                 
3
  In 2015, Silberstein Ungar withdrew its registration from the PCAOB.  Silberstein Ungar also withdrew from the 
Canadian Public Accountability Board in October 2014 and transferred its membership in the International 
Franchise Association to another CPA firm in 2014. 

                                                   
                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

OTC Bulletin Board (“OTCBB”).  Silberstein Ungar served as Issuer A’s auditor as of and for the 
year ended February 28, 2013. 

       7.      Issuer B is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in 
Nevada.  Issuer B is an exploration stage mining company with claims in Arizona and 
California.  During the relevant period, Issuer B common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the 
OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar served as Issuer B’s auditor as of and for the year ended September 30, 
2012. 

       8.      Issuer C is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in 
Nevada.  Issuer C is engaged in the identification, acquisition, and development of prospects 
believed to have mineral deposits in Nevada and Colorado.  Issuer C was a reporting company 
pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar 
served as Issuer C’s auditor as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

       9.      Issuer D is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in 
California.  Issuer D owns or has exclusive licenses to various product candidates in the 
biopharmaceutical and diagnostic areas of the healthcare industry.  Issuer D common stock is 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on 
the OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar served as Issuer D’s auditor as of and for the year ended December 
31, 2012. 

       10.    Issuer E is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in 
Nevada.  Issuer E specializes in the design, development, manufacturing, marketing and 
acquisition of proprietary casino table games and associated technology, platforms and systems for 
the casino gaming industry.  Issuer E common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on the OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar served as 
Issuer E’s auditor as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012. 

       11.    Issuer F is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in 
Michigan.  Issuer F is a technology company providing support within physician and patient web-
based platforms, including Electronic Health Records and Patient Portals.  Issuer F common stock 
is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on 
the OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar served as Issuer F’s auditor as of and for the year ended December 
31, 2012.  

       12.    Issuer G is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of business in New 
York.  Issuer G is an alcoholic beverage company specializing in the development and early 
growth of spirits and establishing its assets as viable and attractive acquisition candidates for the 
major global spirits companies.  During the relevant period, Issuer G common stock was registered 
with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the 
OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar served as Issuer G’s auditor and audited the financial statements for 
the year ended December 31, 2012 included in the Form 10-K filed on April 1, 2013, and the 
restated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 included in the Form 10-K/A 
filed on August 21, 2013. 

                                                  
                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       13.    Issuer H is a Wyoming corporation with its principal place of business in 
California.  Issuer H’s business includes audio and video streaming and advertising services to 
internet and terrestrial radio stations and other broadcast content providers.  Issuer H was a 
reporting company pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act and is quoted on the 
OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar served as Issuer H’s auditor and audited the financial statements for 
the year ended August 31, 2012 included in the Form 10-K filed on December 14, 2012, and the 
restated financial statements for the year ended August 31, 2012 included in the Form 10-K/A filed 
on June 4, 2013. 

       14.    Issuer I is a Nevada corporation with its principal place of business in 
Oregon.  Issuer I is in the business of designing, developing, and marketing distributed generation, 
wind power systems for the small wind market as well as power management solutions.  During 
the relevant period, Issuer I common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to 
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the OTCBB.  Silberstein Ungar served as 
Issuer I’s auditor as of and for the year ended February 28, 2013. 

                                         The Conduct at Issue 
 
       A.  Failure to Obtain Sufficient Evidence to Support the Audit Opinion, the 
           Accounting Estimates Made by Management and Adequately Document the Audit 
           Procedures Performed (AS No. 15, AU § 342, and AS  No. 3)  
        
       15.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15 Audit Evidence requires that the auditor plan 
and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a 
reasonable basis for his or her opinion. As the assessed risk increases, the evidence that the auditor 
should obtain also increases.  For example, ordinarily more evidence is needed to respond to 
                   4
“significant risks.”   When using the information produced by the Company as audit evidence, the 
auditor should evaluate the evidence by testing its accuracy and completeness and evaluating 
                                                                           5
whether it is sufficiently precise and detailed for the purposes of the audit.   Additionally, under 
PCAOB     Auditing Standard AU § 342   Auditing Accounting Estimates, the auditor's objective when 
evaluating accounting estimates is to obtain sufficient appropriate evidential matter to provide 
reasonable assurance that all accounting estimates that could be material to the financial statements 
have been developed; those accounting estimates are reasonable in the circumstances; and the 
accounting estimates are presented in conformity with applicable accounting principles and are 
                   6
properly disclosed.  
        
       16.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 Audit Documentation requires an auditor to 
prepare and retain documentation that provides a written record of the basis for its conclusions.    
Audit documentation must clearly demonstrate that the work was in fact performed.  Among other 
items, the audit documentation must contain sufficient information to enable an experienced 

                                                 
4
  PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 12 Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material Misstatement requires the auditor 
to determine whether any of the assessed risks of material misstatement are significant risks and provides factors 
that should be evaluated when determining whether a risk of material misstatement is a significant risk. 
5
   AS No. 15 at .4 –. 5, and .10. 
6
   AU § 342 .07.  

                                                   
                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement to understand the nature, timing, 
extent, and results of the procedures performed, evidence obtained, and conclusions reached.  
Audit documentation must also contain sufficient information to enable an experienced auditor, 
having no previous connection with the engagement, to determine, among other things, the person 
                                                         7
who reviewed the work and the date of such review.   The following examples demonstrate some 
                                                
of the violations of these auditing standards. 
         
                1.  Issuer A Audit for the Year Ended February 28, 2013 

        17.     Receivables and property and equipment comprised a total of approximately 87% 
of Issuer A’s total assets at 2/28/13 and both audit areas were classified as “significant or fraud 
risks” by Silberstein Ungar.  Gorback and Silberstein initialed the work papers as the respective 
preparer and reviewer of the documents supporting these audit areas.  These work papers were 
predominantly comprised of testing prepared and performed by a different accounting firm for a 
different Issuer A audit.  This other audit was separate and apart from Silberstein Ungar’s audit of 
Issuer A.  The other accounting firm did not assist Silberstein Ungar in performing its Issuer A 
audit.  Gorback and Silberstein considered the other accounting firm’s  work papers as if they were 
prepared by Issuer A’s internal accountants and placed no reliance on the testing performed by the 
other accounting firm.  Nevertheless, Silberstein Ungar’s work papers did not contain sufficient 
documentation of additional audit testing performed by Silberstein Ungar.   
         
        18.     The audit work papers meant to document the audit procedures for related party 
             8                     9
transactions,  subsequent events,    and inquiries of Issuer A  ’s management concerning the risk of 
                                   10
fraud and material misstatement,      were either duplicates or near duplicates of work papers from 
different Silberstein Ungar audits   and included the documentation of procedures performed for the 
other audits, not Issuer A’s audit.  In addition, the audit program meant to document the 
subsequent event procedures, which are procedures that are designed to test for events that occur 
after the balance sheet date, contains dating that reflects that Gorback performed the procedures 
prior to Issuer A’s balance sheet date.  Gorback also failed to send Issuer A the inquiries of 
management concerning the risk of fraud and material misstatement until the Form 10-K filing 
date, and did not receive them back until after the Form 10-K was filed.   
         
                2.  Issuer B Audit for the Year Ended September 30, 2012 and Issuer C Audit 
                    for the Year Ended December 31, 2012 
         

                                                 
7
  AS No. 3 at .1, .5, and .6. 
8
   AU  § 334 Related Parties contained the auditors’ requirements at the time of this audit for identifying related 
party relationships and testing related party transactions.   
9
   AU  § 560 Subsequent Events contains the auditors’ requirements for performing procedures to ascertain whether 
transactions or events occurring in the “subsequent period” between the balance sheet date and the date of the 
auditor’s report require adjustment or disclosure in the financial statements or notes to the financial statements. 
10
    AS No. 12 requires the auditor to perform procedures for assessing the risk of material misstatement of the 
financial statements, including misstatements due to fraud.  One of the required risk assessment procedures is for the 
auditor to make inquiries of “the audit committee, management, and others within the company about the risks of 
material misstatement.” 

                                                       
                                                     6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        19.     Issuer B and Issuer C are both mining companies whose largest assets, mining 
claims and mineral rights, represent almost 80% and 45% of their total assets, respectively.  For 
Issuer B, Silberstein Ungar also identified the significant risk relating to these mining assets.  
However, the audit work papers meant to support the respective audit procedures and conclusion 
(that no impairment was necessary) mainly consisted of memos based on generally accepted 
accounting principles applicable to companies in the oil and gas industry, which were not 
applicable to Issuer B or Issuer C, since they are mining companies.  Issuer B’s own treasurer 
raised this concern in an email to Silberstein and others, stating that the accounting principles that 
                                                                           11
were included in the impairment memo pertained to oil and gas wells.           Despite this red flag, 
Silberstein agreed to the use of these accounting    principles by the company   .  These work papers 
did not contain sufficient documentation of the procedures performed to test the accuracy and 
completeness of the infor  mation in the memos, an evaluation of whether the information was          
sufficiently precise, or sufficient evidence supporting the company’s use of the oil and gas 
accounting principles or the conclusion that no impairment of these assets was necessary. For 
example, the audit work papers do not contain evidence Silberstein Ungar reviewed, evaluated, or 
tested the process used by management to conclude that no impairment was necessary, or 
developed their own independent expectation to corroborate the results of Issuer B and Issuer C’s 
                  12
impairment tests.     

        20.     Issuer B’s audit work papers and notes to the financial statements also reflect the 
existence of a derivative valued at approximately 50% of Issuer B’s liabilities at September 30, 
2012.  The work papers did not reflect the work performed to assess whether the classification as a 
derivative was correct.  Nor did the Issuer B work papers contain documentation of procedures 
performed and sufficient evidence supporting whether the information was sufficiently precise in 
order to determine whether the accounting treatment and disclosures related to the derivative were 
appropriate.  For example, the work papers did not include documentation and sufficient evidence 
supporting  whether Kobylarek and Silberstein:  (1) performed auditing procedures to understand 
the application of generally accepted accounting principles for assertions made by Issuer B about 
its derivative; (2) determined whether generally accepted accounting principles specified the 
method to be used to determine the fair value of Issuer B’s derivative; (3) evaluated if Issuer B’s 
fair value of the derivative was consistent with the specified valuation method; or (4) evaluated if 
the presentation and disclosure of derivative was in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
            13
principles .  

                                                  
11
    The memos were prepared by the company or by an accountant engaged to assist in the preparation of the 
company’s accounting records. 

12
   AU § 342 Auditing Accounting Estimates states that the auditor should obtain an understanding of how 
management developed the estimate by either reviewing and testing the process used by management to develop the 
estimate or developing an independent expectation of the estimate to corroborate the reasonableness of 
management's estimate. AU § 342 .10. 

13
   AU § 332 Auditing Derivative Instruments, Hedging Activities and Investments in Securities  provides guidance 
for auditors in planning and performing auditing procedures for assertions about derivative instruments, hedging 
activities, and investments in securities that are made in an entity’s financial statements.  The auditing procedures 
required by AU § 332 include obtaining an understanding the application of generally accepted accounting 
principles for assertions about derivatives, which might require that the auditor have special knowledge because of 
                                                       
                                                     7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

        21.     Finally, Issuer B’s audit file generally does not contain evidence of the date the 
audit work was completed or the dates Kobylarek and Silberstein performed their review of the 
work papers.  Instead, the audit work papers generally contain the initials of the individual who 
prepared or reviewed the respective audit work along with the date the audit work was placed into 
the electronic audit file, rather than the date the audit work was completed or reviewed.  For 
example, the audit work papers reflecting audit testing for the company’s cash, mining claims, gold 
bullion loan, financing fees, related party transactions, testing of journal entries, subsequent events, 
and inquiries of management concerning the risk of fraud and material misstatement do not contain 
evidence of the date the audit work was completed or reviewed.   

                3.  Issuer G Restatement Audit for the Year Ended December 31, 2012 and 
                    Issuer H Restatement Audit for the Year Ended August 31, 2012  

        22.     Issuer G filed a Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 2012 on August 21, 
2013 and restated the respective financial statements and notes to the financial statements to 
correct its accounting for certain stock warrants.  Issuer H filed a Form 10-K/A the year ended 
August 31, 2012  on June 4, 2013 and restated the respective financial statements and notes to the 
financial statements to report a contingent royalty liability associated with the purchase of certain 
assets and liabilities.  Silberstein Ungar’s audit documentation for Issuer G’s restated stock 
warrants balances and for Issuer H’s restated contingent liability mainly consisted of spreadsheets, 
memos, and/or calculations that were prepared by Issuer G or Issuer H or their representatives.  
Kobylarek generally initialed these documents as the “preparer.”  However, there is no evidence in 
the audit documentation that Silberstein reviewed the Issuer G work papers.  These work papers do 
not contain sufficient evidence or documentation of procedures performed by Silberstein Ungar on 
the main financial model inputs and other values underlying the restated amounts in the financial 
statements, such as the “risk free rate,” “expected life in years,” and “volatility” inputs in the model 
chosen to calculate the restated warrant values (for Issuer G) or the discount rate used to calculate 
the contingent liability (for Issuer H). For example, the auditors did not document whether auditing 
procedures were performed to test the “volatility” value used to calculate Issuer G’s restated 
                                                                                          14
warrant values or the discount rate used to calculate Issuer H’s contingent liability.       Additionally , 

                                                                                                                                                             
the complexity of those principles.  Additionally, the auditor should determine whether generally accepted 
accounting principles specify the method to be used to determine the fair value of the entity’s derivatives and 
securities and evaluate whether the determination of fair value is consistent with the specified valuation 
method.  The auditor should also evaluate whether the presentation and disclosure of derivatives and securities in the 
entity’s financial statements are in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  AU § 332 at .01, 05, 
.35, and .49. 

14
   AU § 328 Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures establishes standards and provide guidance on 
auditing fair value measurements and disclosures contained in financial statements. The auditor should obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide reasonable assurance that fair value measurements and disclosures 
are in conformity with GAAP. The auditor should test the data used to develop the fair value measurements and 
disclosures and evaluate whether the fair value measurements have been properly determined from such data and 
management’s assumptions. Specifically, the auditor evaluates whether the data on which the fair value 
measurements are based, including the data used in the work of a specialist, is accurate, complete, and relevant; and 
whether fair value measurements have been properly determined using such data and management’s assumptions. 
The auditor’s tests also may include, for example, procedures such as verifying the source of the data, mathematical 
recomputation of inputs, and reviewing of information for internal consistency, including whether such information 
                                                       
                                                     8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

besides recalculating the company’s own computations, the audit team did not perform procedures 
to test the process used by management to develop the “risk free rate,” “expected life in years,” and 
“volatility” inputs in the model chosen to calculate the restated warrant values (for Issuer G) or the 
discount rate used to calculate the contingent liability (for Issuer H) and did not develop an 
independent expectation of these estimates to corroborate the reasonableness of management’s 
estimates. 

        23.     Kobylarek and Silberstein also failed to gather sufficient evidence and 
documentation supporting the performance of subsequent event testing.  For example, the audit 
documentation supporting Kobylarek’s and Silberstein’s subsequent events testing for these 
restatement audits was limited to a management representation letter signed by Issuer G and Issuer 
                  15
H management.        

                 4.  Other Issuer Audits 

        24.     Failures to comply with the above PCAOB auditing standards regarding sufficient 
evidence and documentation for the other issuers mainly relate to the impairment testing associated 
with the issuer’s significant assets.  Silberstein, Gorback, and Kobylarek failed to: (1) obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence supporting the impairment testing performed; (2) evaluate the 
company-prepared impairment analyses by testing the accuracy and completeness of the 
underlying information; (3) evaluate whether those analyses were sufficiently precise; and (4) 
properly document the nature, timing, and extent of the procedures performed. 

        25.     Issuer D’s audit work papers, initialed as prepared by Gorback and reviewed by 
Silberstein, contained company-prepared financial and cash flows forecasts to support the 
impairment testing of almost 44% of the company’s assets.  The financial forecasts estimated 
revenues of $21 – $137 million and income of $4 – $77 million from 2013 – 2015.  However, for 
2012, Issuer D had no revenues and a $5.1 million loss, and the notes to the financial statements 
audited by Silberstein Ungar disclose, “company expects to continue to incur substantial losses 
over the next several years during its development phase ….”  The work papers did not contain 
sufficient evidence to support testing the forecast or the conclusions reached from the forecast, 
despite the fact the notes to the financial statements contained information about the company’s 
                                                        16
future prospects that conflicted with the forecast.        The section of the audit documentation 

                                                                                                                                                             
is consistent with management’s intent and ability to carry out specific courses of action. AU § 328 at .01, .03, and 
.39. 

15
    AU § 560 ¶ 12, states the auditor should also generally perform procedures such as making certain inquiries of 
officers and other executives having responsibility for financial and accounting matters, read the latest available 
interim financial statements, read the available minutes of meetings of stockholders, directors, and appropriate 
committees; as to meetings for which minutes are not available, inquire about matters dealt with at such meetings 
and inquire of client's legal counsel concerning litigation, claims, and assessments as part of ascertaining the 
occurrence of subsequent events that may require adjustment or disclosure in the financial statements. 
16
   “If audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with that obtained from another, or if the auditor has 
doubts about the reliability of information to be used as audit evidence, the auditor should perform the audit 
procedures necessary to resolve the matter and should determine the effect, if any, on other aspects of the audit.”  
AS No. 15 at .29.  

                                                          
                                                        9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

pertaining to inquiries of Issuer D’s management concerning the risk of fraud and material 
misstatement contained inquiries made of a CEO from a different Silberstein Ungar audit client, as 
opposed to inquiries made of Issuer D’s CEO.  This audit documentation was reviewed by 
Silberstein and Gorback.  In addition, inquiries concerning the risk of fraud and material 
misstatement were sent by Gorback to the Issuer D CFO after the Form 10-K was filed, and were 
received back from the CFO even later. 

        26.     For the Issuer F audit, Gorback and Silberstein used an audit program as 
documentation for the impairment testing for 36% of the company’s assets, which were also 
identified by the audit team as a significant risk.  The audit program mainly contained initials and 
                                                                                                   17
dates or “N/A” next to audit steps without further documentation of the procedures performed.  
The audit work papers do not contain evidence Silberstein Ungar reviewed, evaluated, or tested the 
process used by management to test for impairment, or developed their own independent 
expectation to corroborate the results of Issuer F’s impairment test. 

        27.     The Issuer I and Issuer E impairment documentation, for assets that comprised 
approximately 50% and 87% of the company’s assets, respectively, mainly consisted of statements 
from management and/or company-prepared memos without further documentation of procedures 
performed to evaluate whether the information was sufficiently precise and accurate.  The audit 
planning documentation also stated concerning Issuer E that, “there is minimal internal control, 
and the opportunity for management override exists, so risk of misstatement will be at a high level.  
We should be aware of the possibility of the overstatement of assets ….”  Notwithstanding this red 
flag, and the fact that significant risks were identified by Silberstein Ungar for these assets, 
Silberstein, Gorback (for Issuer E), and Kobylarek (for Issuer I) did not obtain sufficient audit 
evidence to respond to these risks.  Additionally, the audit work papers did not contain evidence 
Silberstein Ungar reviewed, evaluated, or tested the process used by management to test for 
impairment, or developed their own independent expectation to corroborate the results of Issuer I 
and Issuer E’s impairment test. 

        B.  Failure to Properly Document Procedures Relating to the Evaluation of the 
            Adequacy of Disclosure in Financial Statements (AS No. 3) 

        28.     In all of the audits at issue Silberstein, Ungar, Gorback, and Kobylarek failed to 
include documentation that clearly demonstrated they reconciled underlying accounting records to 
                                                                           18
the issuers’ financial statements and/or notes to the financial statements.   The audit work papers 
                                                 
17
   Audit programs may provide evidence of audit planning as well as limited evidence of the execution of audit 
procedures.  The PCAOB in developing AS No. 3 specifically considered and rejected the idea that use of an audit 
program eliminated the need for proper documentation in the work papers.  AS No. 3 at A12. 
18
   “Audit documentation must clearly demonstrate that the work was in fact performed.” AS No. 3 at .6.  The auditor's 
substantive procedures must include reconciling the financial statements with the underlying accounting records. AS 
No. 13 The Auditor’s Response to the Risks of Material Misstatement at .41.  The auditor is required to evaluate 
whether the financial statements, “contain the information essential for a fair presentation of the financial statements 
in conformity with the applicable financial reporting framework.  Evaluation of the information disclosed in the 
financial statements includes consideration of the form, arrangement, and content of the financial statements 
(including the accompanying notes), encompassing matters such as the terminology used, the amount of detail 
given, the classification of items in the statements, and the bases of amounts set forth.”  PCAOB Auditing Standard 
No.14 Evaluating Audit Results at .31. 

                                                     
                                                  10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

contain lists of audit procedures within audit programs and checklists that include a general 
procedure for agreeing the financial statements and notes to the financial statements to the 
accounting records.  The respective procedure includes initials and a date or a “yes” indicating the 
respective procedure was performed.  However, there is generally no additional documentation 
evidencing that the work was actually completed.  For example, Issuer A’s audit work papers are 
generally in a foreign currency and the financial statements and notes to the financial statements 
are presented in U.S. dollars.  The audit work papers did not include evidence that Gorback or 
Silberstein performed any procedures on the conversion of the foreign currency amounts in the 
work papers into the U.S. dollar amounts in the financial statements and notes to the financial 
statements.  In addition, the Issuer A, Issuer D, and Issuer E work papers did not contain a copy of 
the respective Form 10-K or the financial statements and notes to the financial statements included 
in the Form 10-K. 

       C.  Failure to Comply with the Requirements for Engagement Quality Reviews (AS 
           No. 7) 
 
       29.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 Engagement Quality Review requires an 
engagement quality review and concurring approval of issuance for each audit engagement.  The 
objective of the engagement quality reviewer is to perform an evaluation of the significant 
judgments made by the engagement team and the related conclusions reached in forming the 
overall conclusion on the engagement and in preparing the engagement report in order to 
determine whether to provide concurring approval of issuance.  The engagement quality reviewer 
should review documentation, to the extent necessary, evaluate the significant judgments that relate 
to engagement planning, and evaluate the engagement team’s assessment and response to 
significant risks.  The engagement quality reviewer should also evaluate whether the engagement 
documentation that he or she reviewed when performing the procedures indicates that the 
engagement team responded appropriately to significant risks, and supports the conclusions 
                                                                         19
reached by the engagement team with respect to the matters reviewed.         

       30.     The engagement quality review documentation should contain sufficient 
information to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement, 
to understand the procedures performed by the engagement quality reviewer and include 
information that identifies:  (1) the engagement quality reviewer; (2) the documents reviewed by 
the engagement quality reviewer; and (3) the date the engagement quality reviewer provided 
                                 20
concurring approval of issuance.      In addition, PCAOB standards provide that the firm may g   rant 
permission to the client to use the engagement report in an audit only after the engagement quality 
                                                                                              21
reviewer has performed the review required and provides concurring approval of issuance.           

                                                   
19
   AS No. 7 at .1-.2, and .9 - .11. 
20
    AS No. 7 at .19. 
21
    AS No. 7 at .13. 

                                                    
                                                  11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

               1.  Issuer G and Issuer H  
        
       31.    Silberstein and his firm failed to comply with the engagement quality review 
requirements in connection with the Issuer H audit for the year ended August 31, 2012, and the 
restatement audits of Issuer H for the year ended August 31, 2012 and Issuer G for the year ended 
December 31, 2012.  In each of these cases, the firm issued audit reports for these audit 
engagements without obtaining an engagement quality review and concurring approval of 
issuance.  Silberstein was the engagement partner for all three audit engagements.  

               2.  Issuer B 
        
       32.    For the year ended September 30, 2012, Silberstein and the firm failed to obtain an 
engagement quality review before issuing its audit report and granting Issuer B permission to use 
that report.  The audit report was dated January 15, 2013 and Issuer B filed its Form 10-K, for the 
year ended September 30, 2012, on January 16, 2013.  Ungar did not complete the engagement 
quality review until after the filing date.     

               3.  Ungar’s Performance of Engagement Quality Reviews 
        
       33.    Ungar served as the engagement quality review partner on the Issuer A, Issuer B, 
Issuer D, Issuer E, Issuer F and Issuer I audits.  The engagement quality review checklist, 
completed by Ungar and included in the respective audit work papers, purportedly reflects that he 
performed an objective review of audit documentation relevant to significant accounting, auditing 
and reporting judgments made by the engagement team and the conclusions reached.  It also 
purportedly indicates that he reviewed and evaluated the engagement team’s assessment and 
response to significant risks, and he acknowledged in the work papers that the engagement work 
papers that he reviewed supported the conclusions reached by the engagement team with respect to 
the matters reviewed.  As noted above, the audit work papers for these audits did not include 
sufficient appropriate evidence supporting the procedures performed and conclusions reached by 
the audit team and documentation of the procedures performed for significant financial statement 
balances and/or areas identified by the engagement team as a significant risk.  Additionally, the 
audit documentation does not indicate the inquiries Ungar made of the engagement team, the 
procedures performed, documents reviewed, or whether discussions were held with the 
engagement team to evaluate the significant judgments related to engagement planning and the 
engagement team’s assessment and audit responses to significant risks.  The audit documentation 
also does not indicate all the documents reviewed by Ungar as part of the engagement quality 
review.   

       34.    AS No. 7 provides that the engagement quality reviewer may provide concurring 
approval of issuance only if, after performing the engagement quality review with due professional 
                                                                     22
care, he or she is not aware of a significant engagement deficiency.     Due professional care entails 
possessing the degree of skill commonly possessed by other auditors and exercising it with 
                               23
reasonable care and diligence.     However, the audit areas discussed above , including audit areas 

                                                   
22
   AS No. 7 at .12. 
23
    AU  §230 Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work at .03-.05. 

                                                    
                                                  12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

identified as significant risks, did not contain sufficient evidence and documentation, and the 
respective audit files do not reflect that Ungar performed his engagement quality reviews with due 
professional care.  

       D.  Failure to Properly Examine Journal Entries for Evidence of Possible 
           Misstatement Due to Fraud and Document the Performance of Journal Entry 
           Testing (AU § 316 and AS No. 3) 
 
       35.    Material misstatements of the financial statements due to fraud often involve 
                                                                                  24
manipulation of the financial reporting process through recording journal entries.     Accordingly, 
the auditor should “design procedures to test the appropriateness of journal entries recorded in the 
                                                                                              25
general ledger and other adjustments … made in the preparation of the financial statements.”   For 
purposes of identifying and selecting specific entries and other adjustments for testing, and 
determining the appropriate method of examining the underlying support for the items selected, the 
auditor should consider factors such as the auditor’s assessment of fraud risk, the effectiveness of 
controls over journal entries, the nature and complexity of the accounts and whether journal entries 
                                                       26
were processed outside the normal course of business.    

       36.    “Because fraudulent journal entries often are made at the end of a reporting period, 
the auditor’s testing ordinarily should focus on the journal entries and other adjustments made at 
that time.  However, because material misstatements in financial statements due to fraud can occur 
throughout the period and may involve extensive efforts to conceal how it is accomplished, the 
auditor should consider whether there also is a need to test journal entries throughout the period 
             27
under audit.”   

       37.    The Issuer A, Issuer D, Issuer E, Issuer F, and Issuer H audits did not include 
properly designed procedures to test the appropriateness of journal entries recorded in the general 
ledger, and Silberstein, Gorback (for Issuer A, Issuer D, Issuer E, and Issuer F,) and Kobylarek (for 
Issuer H) did not properly design or perform the testing.  Silberstein Ungar’s “standard” journal 
entry testing procedures were significantly different than what was actually performed during the 
audits and did not comply with PCAOB auditing standards.  The following are examples of the 
deficiencies uncovered during the investigation. 

               1.  Issuer A 
        
       38.    The audit work papers did not include evidence that journal entry testing was 
performed by Silberstein Ungar personnel, except for initials or “yes” responses in audit programs 
or checklists signed off by Gorback and Silberstein.   

                                                 
24
   AU § 316 Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit at .58. 
25
   AU § 316 at .58. 
26
   AU § 316 at .61. 
27
    AU  § 316.62.   

                                                   
                                                 13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

               2.  Issuer E 
        
       39.    The journal entry testing performed by Gorback and reviewed by Silberstein was 
based on a company-prepared report containing one line of Issuer E’s journal entries and not the 
complete journal entries.  Gorback and Silberstein did not perform any testing to ensure the report 
contained all of Issuer E’s journal entries or document the journal entries that were selected for 
testing or the methodology used for selecting journal entries for testing.  Although certain journal 
entries were selected in connection with testing Issuer E’s account balances, such as testing of 
revenues and expenses, there is no evidence that Gorback or Silberstein considered factors from 
AU § 316 when testing the journal entries, such as their assessment of fraud risk, the effectiveness 
of controls over journal entries, the nature and complexity of the accounts, and whether journal 
entries were processed outside the normal course of business. 

               3.  Issuer H 
        
       40.    The audit work papers reflect three journal entries were selected when Kobylarek 
performed testing of Issuer H’s account balances and transactions.  Kobylarek’s initials are 
reflected in an audit program next to journal entry testing procedures and Silberstein reviewed 
these audit programs.  However, there is no evidence these journal entries were selected or tested 
in accordance with AU § 316 or that Kobylarek and Silberstein tested these journal entries in 
response to considering the assessment of Issuer H’s fraud risk, the effectiveness of Issuer H’s 
controls over journal entries, the nature and complexity of the accounts, or whether the journal 
entries were processed outside the normal course of business.  Additionally, Kobylarek obtained 
the general ledger but did not make a selection of journal entries from the general ledger in 
connection with fraud testing.  Nor did he obtain a listing of Issuer H journal entries.  There was no 
specific documentation of the following journal entry testing work steps that Kobylarek initialed as 
having performed:  (1) the results of the journal entry testing; (2) how he determined the journal 
entry population was complete; (3) who performed and reviewed the work; (4) the journal entries 
selected for testing; (5) the procedures performed; or (6) the conclusions reached.   

 
       E.  Failure to Document How Silberstein Ungar Overcame the Presumption to Send 
           Accounts Receivable Confirmations for the Issuer A Audit (AU § 330) 
        
       41.    AU Section 330 The Confirmation Process provides guidance concerning the audit 
confirmation process.  Confirmation of accounts receivable is a generally accepted auditing 
procedure.  AU § 330 states, “it is generally presumed that evidence obtained from third parties 
will provide the auditor with higher-quality audit evidence than is typically available from within 
the entity.  Thus, there is a presumption that the auditor will request the confirmation of accounts 
receivable during an audit” unless certain circumstances arise.  AU § 330 reflects that an auditor 
who has not requested confirmations in the examination of accounts receivable should document 
                                                                                   28
how he or she overcame the presumption that confirmations should be obtained.          Receivables 
were classified as a significant risk by Silberstein Ungar and the audit work papers reflected 
Silberstein Ungar plan ned to confirm accounts receivable.    Additionally, receivables comprised a 

                                                   
28
   AU § 330 at .01, .34, and .35. 

                                                    
                                                  14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

total of approximately 7% of Earn-A-Car’s total assets as of February 28, 2013.  Silberstein Ungar 
did not request accounts receivable confirmations during the Issuer A audit and the work papers 
did not contain documentation concerning why accounts receivable confirmations procedures were 
not performed by Silberstein Ungar.  The work papers contain an “audit documentation checklist” 
designed to “help the auditor assess the completeness of [its] documentation.”  Gorback initialed 
this document as preparer and Silberstein initialed as the reviewer.  The document contains an 
“N/A” next to the question prompting Gorback to document how he overcame the presumption to 
confirm accounts receivable.   

       F.  Failure to Perform Analytical Procedures Related to Revenue (AS No. 14) 

       42.    As part of the overall review, the auditor should perform analytical procedures, 
                                                                                                29
including “analytical procedures relating to revenue through the end of the reporting period.”   No 
analytical procedures were performed for the Issuer A, Issuer D, Issuer E, Issuer F, Issuer G, Issuer 
H, or Issuer I audits.  For example, the Issuer H audit work papers include an “Audit Program for 
Fraud and Illegal Acts” prepared by Kobylarek and reviewed by Silberstein that reflects these 
revenue analytical procedures were not applicable, and no analytical procedures were performed 
for the Issuer H audit.  For the Issuer E audit, Gorback marked these procedures, “N/A” in the 
“Overall Audit Program,” which was also reviewed by Silberstein.  

       G.  Failure to Properly Supervise the Audit (AS No. 10) 

       43.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 10 Supervision of the Audit Engagement states that 
the “engagement partner is responsible for the engagement and its performance.  Accordingly, the 
engagement partner is responsible for proper supervision of the work of engagement team 
                                                            30
members and for compliance with PCAOB standards ….”   The engagement partner should 
review the work of engagement team members and evaluate whether the work was properly 
performed and documented, the objectives of the procedures were achieved, and the results of the 
                                             31
audit work support the conclusions reached.        

               1.  Silberstein 
        
       44.    Silberstein was the engagement partner on the Issuer A, Issuer B, Issuer D, Issuer 
E, Issuer F, Issuer G restatement, Issuer H, Issuer H restatement, and Issuer I audits and failed to 
properly supervise those audits.  This failure is illustrated by Silberstein failing to detect the 
numerous errors noted above after reviewing work papers and authorizing the release of the 

                                                 
29
   AS No. 14 at .5 and .7.  AS No. 14 states that analytical procedures performed during the overall review may be 
similar to the analytical procedures performed as risk assessment procedures.  Analytical procedures performed as 
part of the risk assessment procedures should be designed to: 

   a.  Enhance the auditor's understanding of the client's business and the significant transactions and events that 
       have occurred since the prior year end; and 

   b.  Identify areas that might represent specific risks relevant to the audit, including the existence of unusual 
       transactions and events, and amounts, ratios, and trends that warrant investigation.  AS No. 12 at .46. 
30
    AS No. 10 at . 3.  
31
    AS No. 10 at .5. 

                                                    
                                                  15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

respective audit reports.  This was done even though audit evidence and documentation did not 
comply with PCAOB auditing standards, and procedures required by PCAOB auditing standards 
were not performed.  For example, and as noted previously, the Issuer A audit testing was 
predominantly comprised of documentation prepared and testing performed by a different 
accounting firm for a separate Issuer A audit, even though Silberstein considered those work 
papers and testing as documentation prepared by Issuer A’s internal accountants.  Also, the Issuer 
A and Issuer D audit files contained duplicative or nearly duplicative work papers documenting 
procedures and testing from different audits.  For the Issuer B audit, Silberstein did not identify, or 
consider the impact of, the application of the wrong accounting principles for the impairment 
testing of Issuer B’s largest asset, comprising 80% of Issuer B’s total assets.  Those work papers, 
which Silberstein signed off as reviewing, did not contain documentation of the procedures 
performed or contain sufficient evidence supporting the conclusion that no impairment of those 
assets was necessary.  He was also responsible for the failure of the audit file to properly reflect the 
dates on which the Issuer B audit work papers were completed and reviewed.  Despite the 
completion and review dates reflected in the audit file, Silberstein confirmed that the audit 
documentation had been prepared in accordance with applicable auditing standards.  

       45.    Silberstein also failed to properly supervise the audits and review the work papers.   
Those failures related to:  (1) the status of engagement quality reviews performed for the Issuer G 
restatement, Issuer H, and Issuer H restatement audits; (2) journal entry testing performed on the 
Issuer A, Issuer D, Issuer E, Issuer F, and Issuer H audits; (3) the sufficiency of the audit files for 
Issuer A, Issuer B, Issuer C, Issuer D, Issuer E, Issuer F, Issuer G, Issuer H, and Issuer I to include 
documentation that clearly demonstrated the underlying accounting records reconciled to the 
respective issuers’ financial statements and/or notes to the financial statements; (4) the inclusion of 
an engagement completion document for the Issuer G restatement and Issuer H restatement in the 
audit files; (5) maintaining a complete and final set of audit documentation for the Issuer G 
restatement audit; and (6) documentation explaining how Silberstein Ungar overcame the 
presumption to send accounts receivable confirmations for the Issuer A audit. 

               2.  Ungar 
        
       46.    Ungar was the engagement partner on the Issuer C audit and he failed to properly 
supervise the audit.  As noted above, Ungar failed to detect that Issuer C used the wrong 
accounting guidance when analyzing its largest assets for impairment, even though he reviewed the 
impairment analysis.  He also failed to properly supervise the audit relating to whether the work 
performed for the impairment testing contained documentation of the procedures performed and 
sufficient evidence supporting the company’s conclusion that no impairment of these assets was 
necessary.  Additionally, Ungar was responsible for the failures of the audit documentation to 
clearly demonstrate the underlying accounting records reconciled to the financial statements and 
notes to the financial statements.  

                                                  
                                                16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

        H.  Failure to Exercise Due Professional Care and Professional Skepticism (AU § 230 
            and AS No. 13) 

        47.     PCAOB auditing standards require auditors to exercise due professional care in the 
                                         32
planning and performance of the audit.        Due professional care requires the auditor to exercise 
professional skepticism: an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of 
                33
audit evidence.     Addit  ionally, the auditor's responses to the assessed risks of material 
misstatement, particularly fraud risks, should involve the application of professional skepticism in 
gathering and evaluating audit evidence.  Examples of the application of professional sk      epticism in 
response to the assessed fraud risks are “obtaining sufficient appropriate evidence to corroborate 
management’s explanations or representations concerning important matters, such as through third-
party confirmation, use of a specialist engaged or employed by the auditor, or examination of 
                                              34
documentation from independent sources.”   Respondents failed to exercise professional 
skepticism and perform a critical assessment of the audit evidence as evidenced by the repeated 
deficiencies noted above.  

                1.  Silberstein 
         
        48.     For example, Silberstein authorized the issuance of audit reports even though the 
Issuer A audit testing was predominantly comprised of documentation prepared and testing 
performed by a different accounting firm for a separate Issuer A audit.  Silberstein also reviewed 
Issuer A and Issuer D audit documentation that was duplicative or a near duplicate of audit testing 
from audits of other Silberstein Ungar clients, and he reviewed Issuer B audit documentation that 
was dated as completed and/or reviewed after the date the Issuer B 10-K was filed.  The lack of 
engagement quality reviews performed for the Issuer G restatement, Issuer H, and the Issuer H 
restatement audits also illustrate Silberstein’s lack of due professional care. 

                2.  Ungar 
         
        49.     Ungar failed to exercise due professional care and professional skepticism since he 
authorized the issuance of audit reports even though the audit documentation for the impairment 
analysis of Issuer C’s largest asset was based on the wrong accounting guidance.  The audit file 
also did not contain documentation of agreeing the underlying accounting records to the financial 
statements and notes to the financial statements.  Ungar also failed to exercise due professional 
care and professional skepticism when acting as an engagement quality reviewer, as noted above. 

                3.  Gorback 
         
        50.     Gorback prepared and reviewed audit documentation that contained a significant 
lack of audit documentation and sufficient audit evidence.  For example, Gorback initialed as 
preparer of the Issuer A audit documentation discussed above, which did not include sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence and documentation of the procedures he performed.  Gorback included 

                                                 
32
   AU § 230.01. 
33
    AU § 230.07. 
34
    AS No. 13 at .7. 

                                                      
                                                    17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

audit documentation in the Issuer A and Issuer D audit files that were duplicates or near duplicates 
of documents from other audit files for different audit clients, without updating the documents to 
reflect whether those respective audit procedures were performed for the Issuer A or Issuer D 
audits.  Gorback also acknowledged in a “Review and Approval” checklist in the Issuer A and 
Issuer D audit files that the audit documentation was complete and clearly demonstrated the work 
performed and that they had properly indexed, cross referenced, signed, and dated audit 
documentation even though the Issuer A and Issuer D audit documentation contained the 
deficiencies noted above.  Gorback also failed to include sufficient appropriate audit evidence and 
documentation of the procedures performed for the Issuer E and Issuer F audits, including evidence 
and documentation relating to the testing of assets that comprised approximately 87% and 36% of 
those respective entity’s total assets, and which also contained significant risks identified by the 
audit team. 

               4.  Kobylarek 

       51.    Kobylarek prepared and reviewed audit documentation that contained a 
significant lack of audit documentation and sufficient audit evidence.  As noted above, the audit 
documentation for the Issuer H and Issuer G restatement audits mainly consisted of 
documentation prepared by or on behalf of Issuer H or Issuer G, without sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence supporting the audit testing and documentation of the audit procedures performed.  
Kobylarek also acknowledged in the “Review and Approval” checklist in the Issuer B audit file 
that the audit documentation was complete and clearly demonstrated the work performed and 
that they had properly indexed, cross referenced, signed, and dated audit documentation even 
though the Issuer B impairment testing did not contain sufficient appropriate evidence and 
documentation of the procedures performed.  The audit file also reflects that Kobylarek reviewed 
most of the audit documentation after the Issuer B 10-K was filed.     
 
                                           Violations 
 
       52.    As a result of the conduct described above, the Commission finds that Silberstein 
Ungar, Silberstein, Ungar, Gorback, and Kobylarek engaged in improper professional conduct 
pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, which includes negligent conduct in the form of:  

       (1)  A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of 
       applicable professional standards in circumstances in which an accountant, a registered 
       public accounting firm, or associated person knows, or should know, that heightened 
       scrutiny is warranted. 
        
       (2)  Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of 
       applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before 
       the Commission. 

       53.    As a result of the conduct described above, Silberstein Ungar willfully violated 
Exchange Act Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, which requires that an auditor’s report state 

                                                  
                                               18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, including 
the standards of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission. 

       54.    As a result of the conduct described above, Silberstein, Ungar, Gorback, and 
Kobylarek willfully aided and abetted and caused Silberstein Ungar’s violations of Exchange Act 
Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X. 

       55.    As a result of the conduct described above, Silberstein Ungar, Silberstein, Ungar, 
Gorback, and Kobylarek willfully aided and abetted and caused the issuers discussed above to 
violate Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 15(d) and Rules 13a-1 and 15d-1 thereunder, which 
prohibits issuers from filing annual reports with the Commission that have financial statements 
containing false and misleading information. 

                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) 
        
and (iii)of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, 
that: 
 
       A.      Respondents shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 15(d) and Rules 13a-1 and 15d-1 
thereunder, and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.  
 
       B.      Respondents are denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       C.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent Silberstein may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent Silberstein’s work in his practice before the Commission will 
                      be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
                      company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long 
                      as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that:      

                                                 
                                               19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                      (a)     Respondent Silberstein, or the public accounting firm with which 
                              he is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent Silberstein, or the registered public accounting firm 
                              with which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and 
                              that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential 
                              defects in Respondent Silberstein or the firm’s quality control 
                              system that would indicate that Respondent Silberstein will not 
                              receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent Silberstein has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                              Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any 
                              sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent Silberstein acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent Silberstein appears or practices before the 
                              Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
                              requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
                              limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
                              concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 

       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Silberstein to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Silberstein’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       E.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent Ungar may request 
that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office 
of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
  
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent Ungar’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

                                                 
                                               20 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

              2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that:      

                      (a)    Respondent Ungar, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                             associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                             Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                             Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)   Respondent Ungar, or the registered public accounting firm with 
                             which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                             inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                             Respondent Ungar or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                             indicate that Respondent Ungar will not receive appropriate 
                             supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent Ungar has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                             Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any 
                             sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                             Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent Ungar acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                             Respondent Ungar appears or practices before the 
                             Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
                             requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but 
                             not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                             inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
                             standards. 

       F.     The Commission will consider an application by Ungar to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he 
has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
relating to Ungar’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
practice before the Commission. 

       G.     After three years from the date of this order, Respondent Kobylarek may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as: 
 
              1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Respondent Kobylarek’s work in his practice before the Commission will 

                                                 
                                               21 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                      be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
                      company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long 
                      as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that:      

                      (a)     Respondent Kobylarek, or the public accounting firm with which 
                             he is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                             Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                             Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)   Respondent Kobylarek, or the registered public accounting firm 
                            with which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and 
                            that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects 
                            in Respondent Kobylarek or the firm’s quality control system that 
                            would indicate that Respondent Kobylarek will not receive 
                            appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent Kobylarek has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                            Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any 
                            sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                            Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent Kobylarek acknowledges his responsibility, as 
                            long as Respondent Kobylarek appears or practices before the 
                            Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
                            requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but 
                            not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                            inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
                            standards. 

       H.     The Commission will consider an application by Kobylarek to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Kobylarek’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 

       I.     After three years from the date of this order, Gorback may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 

                                                 
                                               22 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

       J.      Respondent Silberstein shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $35,000 to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States 
Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following 
installments:   
        
               1.  $12,000 within 10 days of entry of this Order; 
               2.  $12,000 within 180 days of entry of this Order; 
               3.  $11,000 plus interest on the payments described in Section IV.J(1)-(3) pursuant 
                 to 31 U.S.C. 3717 within 360 days of entry of this Order. 
        
       Prior to making the payment described in Section IV.J(3), Silberstein shall contact the 
Commission staff to ensure the inclusion of interest.  If any payment is not made by the date the 
payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any 
additional interest accrued pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and payable immediately, at 
the discretion of the Commission staff, without further application.   
        
       K.      Respondent Ungar shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $7,500 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to 
the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If 
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717. 
 
       L.     Silberstein’s and Ungar’s payments must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Ronald N. Silberstein or Joel M. Ungar as a respondent in these proceedings, and the file number 
of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Tom 
Krysa, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 1961 Stout Street, Suite 
1700, Denver, CO  80294-1961.    
 

                                                 
                                               23 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

       M.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents Silberstein and Ungar agree that in 
any Related Investor Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, 
offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of 
Respondents Silberstein’s and Ungar’s payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  
If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents Silberstein 
and Ungar agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty 
Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil 
penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this 
proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a private damages 
action brought against Respondents Silberstein or Ungar by or on behalf of one or more investors 
based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondent Silberstein and Ungar, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, 
civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondent Silberstein or Ungar under this Order or any 
other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with 
this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondent Silberstein or Ungar of the federal 
securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) 
of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
                    
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                   
                                                24 
