---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No.  79772 / January 11, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDIT ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3844 / January 11, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17769 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE -AND-
In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                             SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
      L3 Technologies, Inc.                  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                             FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A CEASE -
Respondent.                                  AND-DESIST ORDER   
 
 
 
                                            I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against L3 Technologies, Inc. (“L3” or “Respondent”) 
(formerly known as “L-3 Communications Holdings, Inc.”).   
 
                                           II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
And-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Making Findings, and 
Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 
 
                                                                                1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  

                                          SUMMARY 

       1.      These proceedings arise out of L3’s failure to maintain books, records and accounts 
that accurately reflected the transaction and dispositions of its assets, and for failing to maintain a 
sufficient system of internal accounting controls.  These failures relate to L3’s Army Sustainment 
Division (“ASD”) improperly recording $17.9 million in revenue at the time based on invoices 
associated with unresolved claims against the U.S. Army that were created in L3’s internal 
accounting system but not delivered to the customer.   

       2.      Employees aware of creating these invoices immediately reported concerns 
regarding potential violations of L3’s accounting policies and internal accounting controls to L3’s 
internal ethics department, which undertook a prompt review.  But the review was not conducted in 
a sufficient and effective manner due in part to a failure by ethics investigators to adequately 
understand the billing process involved and their misinterpretation of statements made by 
witnesses.   

       3.      As a consequence, it was not until June 2014 that L3 discovered the invoices that 
ASD had created in connection with unresolved claims but that had not been delivered.  Based on a 
subsequent internal investigation, L3 concluded it had material weaknesses in its Internal Control 
Over Financial Reporting (“ICFR”) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 and the end of the 
fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2014, and the company revised its financial statements from 2011 
through 2014.  

                                        RESPONDENT 

       4.      L3, a Delaware corporation based in New York, New York, is a prime contractor 
for various foreign and U.S. Government agencies, including the U.S. Department of Defense.  
L3’s securities are registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act, 
and its securities trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol LLL.   

                                             FACTS 

The C-12 Contract 

       5.      L3 contracted to maintain, through its subsidiary Vertex and later ASD, a fleet of 
approximately 100 fixed-wing C-12 airplanes for the U.S. Army at bases in the United States and 
around the world pursuant to a contract referred to as the “C-12 Contract.”  The C-12 Contract had 
an approximately five-year term, commencing on June 2, 2010, and ending on January 31, 2015.  
In 2013, executives at ASD, the L3 division that managed the contract, realized that it had low 
margins, and in mid-2013, they realized that the contract was projected to lose money for the fiscal 
                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

year, putting ASD at risk of not making its annual operating plan.  The executives also determined 
that work had been performed on the C-12 Contract that was not billed to the U.S. Army. 

The Revenue Recovery Initiative 

       6.      In or around August 2013, executives at ASD developed a “Revenue Recovery 
Initiative,” which had the purpose of identifying work performed under the C-12 Contract but that 
had not been billed to the U.S. Army, and then developing a plan to bill the U.S. Army for that 
work.  By November 2013, ASD determined that approximately $50 million in work had been 
performed on the C-12 Contract but not billed.   

       7.      Because of the complicated nature of the services performed under the contract, and 
the need for the U.S. Army to verify the work performed, L3 and the U.S. Army did not reach an 
agreement on payment of the unbilled items by the end of 2013.   

Creation of Invoices 

       8.      Facing pressure from certain supervisors, in December 2013, the VP of Finance at 
ASD requested that certain ASD employees generate approximately 69 invoices on performed but 
unbilled work related to the C-12 Contract, but refrain from delivering them to the U.S. Army.  
ASD recognized an additional $17.9 million in revenue at the time based on the undelivered 
invoices, enabling ASD to barely satisfy the target required in order to qualify for management 
incentive bonuses.   

       9.      L3’s revenue recognition policy, consistent with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles (“GAAP”), set forth four requirements that must generally be met before revenue can be 
realized and earned: (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (2) delivery has occurred or 
services have been rendered; (3) the seller’s price to the buyer is fixed or determinable; and (4) 
collectability is reasonably assured.   

       10.    As of the end of 2013, collectability was not reasonably assured with respect to the 
invoices because the invoices corresponded to claims L3 was asserting or intended to assert against 
the U.S. Army but which the customer had not reviewed or agreed to resolve. 

       11.    ASD’s financial statements roll up into L3’s consolidated financial statements, 
causing L3 to improperly recognize revenue related to the C-12 Contract. 

Reports to Ethics 

       12.    While deliberate steps were taken by an individual to evade L3’s internal 
accounting controls and to mislead L3’s external auditors, L3’s internal accounting controls failed 
to detect and prevent the improper recognition of revenue on the C-12 Contract.  In November 
2013, an employee at L3 filed an ethics report concerning certain aspects of the C-12 Contract.  In 
response to the report, L3’s internal ethics department commenced an investigation of the 
allegations.   

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       13.    In December 2013, when the 69 invoices on unbilled work related to the C-12 
Contract were created, an additional specific report was raised to L3’s internal ethics department, 
which promptly conducted several interviews to investigate the report.   

       14.    However, the ethics investigators failed to identify the improper revenue 
recognition issue because they did not adequately understand the billing process for the C-12 
Contract, and misinterpreted statements made to them by witnesses.  As a consequence, the invoice 
issue was not timely raised to the Audit Committee of L3’s Board of Directors. 

L3’s Internal Investigation and Disclosures 

       15.    In June 2014, when L3 discovered the invoices that had been generated in 
December 2013 but not delivered to the U.S. Army, L3 conducted an internal investigation using 
outside advisors, which determined that ASD improperly recognized revenue on invoices that were 
generated but never delivered to the customer, in violation of L3’s revenue recognition policy and 
GAAP. 

       16.    On July 31, 2014, L3 issued a press release reporting its preliminary unaudited 
financial results for the second quarter of 2014, which explained that the company was conducting 
an internal review of accounting matters at its Aerospace Systems segment.  The press release 
noted that L3 expected to incur a pre-tax charge against operating income and a related reduction 
in net sales for periods prior to 2014 and the first half of 2014, primarily as a result of certain 
contract cost overruns that were inappropriately deferred and overstatements of net sales, both of 
which were related to a fixed price maintenance and logistics support government contract referred 
to as the “C-12 Contract.”   

       17.    On October 10, 2014, L3 filed a Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 
31, 2013, and a Form 10-Q/A for the first quarter of 2014.  The amendments disclosed that, 
following the internal review of the Aerospace Systems segment, L3 identified material 
weaknesses in the company’s ICFR, and that, as a result, the company’s ICFR and disclosure 
controls and procedures were not effective as of the end of the fiscal year ended December 31, 
2013, or the end of the fiscal quarter ended March 28, 2014.  The 2013 10-K/A and 1Q:14 10-Q/A 
specifically reported that: 

           (1) the Company did not maintain an effective control environment at its 
           Aerospace Systems segment with respect to: (i) inadequate execution of 
           existing controls around the annual review and approval of contract (revenue 
           arrangement) estimates; (ii) not following established Company accounting 
           policies, controls and procedures, and (iii) intentional override of numerous 
           transactional and monitoring internal controls at our Army Sustainment 
           division; and (2) Company personnel did not perform reviews of certain 
           employee concerns regarding violations of our accounting policies and ICFR in 
           a sufficient and effective manner. [2013 10-K/A at 35; 1Q:14 10-Q/A at 39.]   

       18.    The amended filings further disclosed that with respect to its Aerospace Systems 
group, L3 identified and recorded pre-tax charges of $60 million for 2013; $25 million for 2012; 

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

$5 million for 2011; $4 million for periods prior to 2011; $20 million for 1Q:14; and $55 million 
for 2Q:14, for a total of $169 million in the group.  The adjustments identified in Aerospace 
Systems group related to the Logistics Solutions and Platform Solutions sectors, with aggregate 
adjustments of $117 million for Logistics Solutions, and $52 million for the Platform Systems.   

       19.    Of the $117 Logistics Solutions adjustments, $69 million were attributable to the C-
12 Contract due to “cost overruns inappropriately deferred, sales invoices inappropriately prepared, 
and the failure to timely and accurately perform contract estimates at completion and valuation 
assessments of inventories and receivables” at the Army Sustainment Division of Logistics 
Solutions, as well as $48 million attributable to “accounting errors . . . in connection with the 
valuation inventories and receivables, as well as the correction for certain accruals on other 
logistics support contracts”  [2013 10-K/A at 35; 1Q:14 10-Q/A at 40.] 

       20.    The $52 million Platform Systems sector adjustments were related to losses of $37 
million on two aircraft modification contracts and two contracts for rotary wing sub-assemblies 
and parts, and write-offs of deferred costs of $15 million to design and test aerostructures for a new 
commercial aircraft. 

       21.    The amended filings further disclosed that, unrelated to the review at the Aerospace 
Systems segment, L3 evaluated the accounting treatment related to a sales-type lease transaction 
with the U.S. Army for rotary wing flight simulator systems.  Based on the results of this 
evaluation, L3 revised its previously issued financial statements to increase interest income 
accretion for the first six months of 2014, 2013, 2012, and periods prior to 2011 by an aggregate 
amount of $25 million, and an aggregate decrease in sales by $15 million for 2013 and the first six 
months of 2014, and aggregate decrease in the cost of sales of $19 million for the first six months 
of 2014, 2013 and periods prior to 2011.   

       22.    The amended filings further disclosed that L3 revised its previously issued financial 
statements to correct for certain errors recorded in the company’s financial statements in order to 
reflect them in the appropriate periods. 

       23.    Approximately $69 million of the pre-tax adjustments related to the C-12 Contract, 
and of that amount, approximately $15.4 million in pre-tax income was the result of misconduct by 
certain executives in ASD in connection with the invoices. 

                                         VIOLATIONS 

       24.    By virtue of the conduct described above, L3’s books, records and accounts did not, 
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its transactions and dispositions of assets. 

       25.    Also by virtue of the conduct described above, L3 failed to implement internal 
accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that its accounts were accurately 
stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 

       26.    As a result of the conduct described above, L3 violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the 
Exchange Act, which requires reporting companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts 

                                                 5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their 
assets. 

       27.    Also as a result of the conduct described above, L3 violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among other things, 
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles. 

                       L3’s REMEDIAL ACTS AND COOPERATION 

       28.    In its 10-K issued for fiscal year 2015, L3 disclosed that it had undertaken certain 
steps to remediate its material weaknesses in its ICFR, and that it had tested these controls and 
determined them to be effective.  In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered 
extensive remedial acts promptly undertaken by Respondent, including conducting an internal 
investigation, terminating a number of employees associated with the conduct in question, and self-
reporting the matter to the Commission; and the cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                                  IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent L3’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent L3 cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.   

       B.      L3 shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in 
the amount of $1.6 million to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general 
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.   

Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
                
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 

                                                6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying L3 
as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the 
cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Sanjay Wadhwa, Senior Associate Director, 
Division of Enforcement, New York Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 200 
Vesey Street, New York, NY 10281.   
 
       C.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
       D.      Respondent acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in 
excess of $1.6 million based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation and/or related 
enforcement action.  If at any time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement 
obtains information indicating that Respondent knowingly provided materially false or misleading 
information or materials to the Commission, or in a related proceeding, the Division may, at its 
sole discretion and with prior notice to the Respondent, petition the Commission to reopen this 
matter and seek an order directing that the Respondent pay an additional civil monetary penalty.  
Respondent may contest by way of defense in any resulting administrative proceeding whether it 
knowingly provided materially false or misleading information, but may not:  (1) contest the 
findings in the Order; or (2) assert any defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, 
any statute of limitations defense. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                7  
