---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
      Release No. 75958 / September 22, 2015  
      ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
      Release No. 3704 / September 22, 2015  
      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
      File No. 3-16826 

                                               ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                               DESIST PROCEEDINGS, PURSUANT TO 
      In the Matter of                         SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
             STEIN MART, INC.,                 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
                                               FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
      Respondent.                              SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                               ORDER 

       

                                                I. 

             The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
      cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) against Stein Mart, Inc. (“Respondent”). 

                                                II. 

             In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
      of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept .  Solely for the 
      purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
      Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
      findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
      proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting 
      Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
      Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as 
      set forth below. 

 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                      III. 
                                                                                        1
               On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds    
                                                                                         that: 

                                                 SUMMARY 

               From at least 2010 to November 2012, Stein Mart, Inc. (“Stein Mart”) materially 
       misstated its pre-tax income in certain quarterly periods as a result of improperly valuing 
       inventory that was subject to price discounts, or markdowns.  During the relevant period, Stein 
       Mart used three types of markdowns: a temporary markdown, which was a temporary price 
       reduction for certain promotional sales; a permanent markdown, which was a permanent price 
       reduction; and a “Perm POS” markdown, which also was a permanent price reduction but the 
       merchandise subject to Perm POS markdowns was marketed in a manner similar to merchandise 
       subject to temporary markdowns. 

               Stein Mart did not value the inventory associated with Perm POS markdowns in 
       accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  In particular – despite 
       the fact that merchandise subject to Perm POS markdowns     had a permanent price reduction – 
       Stein Mart improperly valued the inventory associated with Perm POS markdowns by writing 
       down the inventory values at the time the product was sold as opposed to immediately   when the 
       markdown was taken.  Moreover, during the relevant period, Stein Mart had a number of other 
       internal control deficiencies and accounting errors surrounding, among other things, software 
       assets, credit card liabilities, and other inventory-related issues. 

               Ultimately, in May 2013, Stein Mart res tated its financial results for the first quarter of 
       2012, all reporting periods in fiscal year 2011, and its annual reporting period in fiscal year 2010 
       primarily because of its accounting error involving Perm POS markdowns    .  As a result, of this 
       error, in the first quarter of 2012, Stein Mart materially overstated its pre -tax income by almost 
       30%.  Moreover, in connection with the restatement, the company acknowledged material 
       weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting.  By engaging in the fo regoing conduct, 
       Stein Mart violated the reporting, books and records, and internal controls provisions of the 
       federal securities laws, namely Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
       and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                               RESPONDENT 

               Stein Mart, Inc. (“Stein Mart”), a Delaware corporation headquartered in Jacksonville, 
       Florida, is a national apparel retailer with 270 stores operating in 30 states.  Stein Mart’s 

                                                        

       1 
               The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or 
       entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                       2 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(  b) of the Exchange Act 
       and trades on the NASDAQ.  Stein Mart’s fiscal year ends  at the end of business on the Saturday 
       closest to January 31.    

                                                   FACTS 

           A.  Introduction 

           1.  Stein Mart, as a retail company, carries inventory as one of its most significant assets.  
              Under GAAP, companies value their inventory pursuant to FASB Accounting Standards 
              Codification Topic 330 (“ASC 330”) which requires valuing inventory at the lower of 
              cost or market.  To arrive at the lower of cost or market, Stein Mart utilized   the Retail 
              Inventory Method ( “RIM”), an averaging method commonly used within the retail 
              industry that is consistent with GAAP. 

           2.  Stein Mart, a national retailer, often offers its merchandise to customers at retail price 
              reductions referred to as “markdowns.”  As described in greater detail below, proper 
              analysis of these markdowns is critical in properly determining the value of ending 
              inventories. 

           3.  Stein Mart has historically used three categories of markdowns for tracking merchandise: 
              (i) temporary or point of sale (“POS”) markdowns, (ii) permanent markdowns, and (iii) 
              “Perm POS” markdowns. 

           4.  Temporary Markdowns are a temporary reduction in the selling price of an item to 
              stimulate demand or reduce the inventory.  Stein Mart used these types of markdo wns for 
              certain promotional sales, like a Fourth of July weekend sale.  Once the sale period 
              ended, the merchandise subject to a temporary markdown returned to its original retail 
              price. 

           5.  Permanent Markdowns are a permanent reduction in the selling price of an item to 
              stimulate demand and clear out seasonal inventory.  Stein Mart referred to these 
              markdowns as “hardmarks,” because the original price on the price tag for merchandise 
              subject to a permanent markdown was crossed out and replaced with the marked down 
              price.  Unlike temporary markdowns, merchandise subject to a permanent markdown 
              never returned to its original retail price. 

           6.  Stein Mart used a third type of markdown known as “Perm POS” markdowns .  Like 
              permanent markdowns, merchandise subject to a Perm POS markdown never reverted 
              back its original retail price.  Unlike merchandise subject to permanent markdowns, 
              however, this permanent price change was reflected by store signage as opposed to a 
              change in the price tag; and the merchandise subject to Perm POS markdowns was placed 
              in the stores with merchandise subject to temporary markdowns while merchandise 
              subject to permanent markdowns was placed separately in stores  . 

                                                      3 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

          7.  Prior to 2009, Stein Mart generally used three percentage discounts associated with 
              merchandise subject to Perm POS markdowns – 30%, 50%, and 75%      .  After 2009, 
              however, Stein Mart removed the 50% and 75% Perm POS markdowns, but maintained 
              the 30% Perm POS markdown. 

          8.  By 2009, Stein Mart changed its markdown strategy by increasing the number of 
              permanent markdowns taken throughout the year and particularly by year-end, compared 
              to other types of markdowns including Perm POS.  As a result  of the fact that 
              merchandise subject to perm POS markdowns was permanently marked down and then 
              marked out of stock by year-end, Perm POS markdowns did not significantly impact 
              Stein Mart’s full-year financial results.  The manner in which Stein Mart accounted for 
              Perm POS markdowns, however, could have still significantly impacted Stein Mart’s 
              quarterly inventory values and related financial results. 

          B.  Stein Mart’s Accounting for Perm POS Markdowns and Absence of Internal Controls 

          9.  Despite the fact that the price associated with merchandise subject to Perm POS 
              markdowns never reverted back to its original retail price, Stein Mart accounted for this 
              merchandise in the same manner as it did merchandise subject to temporary markdowns. 

          10. The difference between temporary/Perm POS markdowns and permanent markdowns 
              was significant from an accounting perspective, and more specifically, from an inventory 
              valuation perspective.  In particular, Stein Mart reduced the value of inventory subject to 
              a temporary/Perm POS markdown at the time the item was sold , while Stein Mart 
              reduced the value of inventory subject to a permanent markdown immediately at the 
              time the markdown was applied (emphasis added).     

          11. Despite this significant difference in accounting treatment, Stein Mart did not – until at 
              least the middle of 2011  – have adequate internal accounting controls concerning Perm 
              POS markdowns. 

          12. For example, the decision to categorize a markdown as permanent, temporary, or Perm 
              POS resided solely with Stein Mart’s merchandising department, which had no 
              knowledge of the impact that these markdowns had on the inventory valuation 
              accounting. 

          13. Moreover, prior to at least the middle of 2011, Stein Mart had insufficient internal 
              accounting controls that provided for its accounting department to review (i) how the 
              merchants categorized markdowns as permanent, temporary, or Perm POS or (ii) whether 
              the merchandise associated with Perm POS markdowns was accounted for properly. 

               

               

                                                     4 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

          C.  Stein Mart’s CFO Discovers Perm POS Markdowns and Consults With Others 

          14. In the summer of 2011, Stein Mart’s Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”) – who had been 
              hired as CFO in August of 2009 – learned for the first time that Stein Mart used “Perm 
              POS” markdowns .  Prior to this time, and as a reflection of the insufficient internal 
              accounting controls surrounding Perm POS markdowns, Stein Mart   ’s CFO believed the 
              company used only permanent and temporary markdowns. 

          15. Upon learning of these markdowns, Stein Mart ’s CFO gathered additional information by 
              consulting with Stein Mart’s merchandising department and others.  Stein Mart ’s CFO 
              understood after these consultations that – like permanent markdowns – the price 
              associated with Perm POS markdowns did not revert to its original retail price . 

          16. Stein Mart’s CFO subsequently had internal and external consultations concerning Stein 
              Mart’s accounting for Perm POS markdowns.  Some, including Stein Mart ’s Audit 
              Committee Chair, believed that Stein Mart’s practice was an acceptable method while 
              others provided information indicating that certain other retailers utilized different 
              methods for valuing Perm POS-like merchandise.  Following these consultations, Stein 
              Mart’s CFO ultimately concluded that Stein Mart’s practice of writing down Perm POS 
              inventory at the time the product was sold was an acceptable method under GAAP.  

          D.  Discussion with Stein Mart’s External Auditor 

          17. Despite the extensive internal and external discussions and additional steps noted above, 
              Stein Mart did not consult with its external auditor concerning Perm POS markdowns 
              until the fall of 2012. 

          18. In the fall of 2012, Stein Mart’s Audit Committee Chair concluded that the company 
              should account for Perm POS markdowns on the same basis as Permanent Markdowns, 
              meaning that the company should write down the inventory associated with Perm POS 
              markdowns at the time the markdown was taken instead of when the product was sold. 

          19. Stein Mart’s CFO subsequently contacted the engagement partner for the company’s 
              external auditor to discuss this issue.  Stein Mart ’s CFO informed the audit engagement 
              partner that the company’s proposed change in accounting treatment for Perm POS 
              markdowns was a change from one acceptable GAAP method to another, as opposed to a 
              change in method to correct for an accounting error under GAAP. 

          20. Stein Mart’s external auditor disagreed with the company’s view, and more specifically, 
              believed that Stein Mart’s current accounting for Perm POS Markdowns was not in 
              accordance with GAAP, and in turn, represented an accounting error. 

        

               
                                                     5 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

           E.  Stein Mart Restates and Discloses  Accounting Error for Perm POS Markdowns 

           21. Subsequently, in May 2013, Stein Mart restated its financial statements for the first 
               quarter of 2012, all quarterly and annual periods in fiscal year 2011, and the annual 
               period for fiscal year 2010.  In its restatement, Stein Mart stated that its original 
               accounting for Perm POS markdowns was an accounting error and not in accordance 
               with GAAP. 

           22. As a result of Stein Mart’s accounting error for Perm POS markdowns and as reflected by 
               the chart below (in 000s), Stein Mart materially overstated or understated pre-tax income 
               in certain quarterly reporting periods.  Most notably, Stein Mart reported an approximate 
               30% overstatement in its pre-tax income for its first quarter 2012 results because of its 
               improper accounting for Perm POS markdowns. 

                                               FY     Q1 '11   Q2 '11   Q3 '11   Q4 '11      FY     Q1 '12 
                                              2010                                          2011 
            Pre-Tax Income/(Loss) – 
                                             53,192   26,215    2,250    (5,417)   8,923   31,971   20,372 
            Originally Reported 
            Pre-Tax Income/(Loss) – Restated   52,426   23,164  4,154    (6,392)   11,740   32,667   15,685 
            Pre-Tax Income/(Loss) – 
                                               766     3,051   (1,904)    975     (2,817)   (696)   4,687 
            Over/(Under) Statement  
            Percentage Over/(Under) 
            Statement                        1.5%     13.2%   -45.8%   -15.3%   -24.0%   -2.1%   29.9% 
             
        
           23. Moreover, in the restatement, Stein Mart acknowledged that it not only had a material 
               weakness in its internal control over financial reporting surrounding Perm POS 
               markdowns but also that it had a material weakness in “its control environment related to 
               the level of information and communication between the finance department and other 
               departmental functions.” 

           F.  Other Stein Mart Accounting and Internal Control Issues 

           24. In addition to the issues surrounding Perm POS markdowns, Stein Mart had a number  of 
               other accounting and internal controls related issues during the relevant period.   

           25. First, in the first quarter of 2011, Stein Mart identified an error related to its liability for 
               credit card rewards earned under Stein Mart’s co-brand credit program with a bank.  This 
               error was caused by two issues: (i) an operational error in the information technology 
               systems used to calculate these liabilities and (ii) the reconciliation performed by Stein 
               Mart’s accounting department to detect these types of errors was done improperly .  This 
               error resulted in an approximate $2 million total understatement of Stein Mart’s other 
               income across certain periods, which the company corrected as an out-of-period 
               adjustment in the first quarter of 2011. 

                                                        6 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

           26. Second, in the third quarter of 2011, Stein Mart identified an error in connection with the 
               operation of its inventory retail stock ledger system.  This error was also caused by two 
               issues: (i) an operational error in the applicable informational technology systems and (ii) 
               a failure to perform timely reconciliations in the accounting department.  This error 
               caused Stein Mart to overstate its gross margin and inventory by $2.2 million in its 
               earnings release for the third quarter of 2011.  The company disclosed the error and 
               accounted for these items correctly in the financial statements filed with the company  ’s 
               third quarter 2011 Form 10-Q.  The company subsequently disclosed in the fourth quarter 
               of 2011 that this error resulted from a material weakness in its internal control over 
               financial reporting. 

           27. Third, in the fourth quarter of 2011, the company identified during the reconciliation 
               process an unsupported credit card variance for its outstanding credit card settlements.  
               The company found that it was improperly relating these credit card variances to prior 
               periods.  This error resulted in a slight overstatement of pre-tax income across certain 
               periods, which the company recorded as a cumulative adjustment in the fourth quarter of 
               2011.  In its fiscal year-end 2011 annual report, Stein Mart acknowledged that this error 
               reflected a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. 

           28. Fourth, in the middle of 2012, the company identified an error relating to incorrect 
               capitalization and amortization of software in prior periods and software assets that 
               should have been retired prior to 2012.  This error resulted from both information 
               technology and accounting personnel improperly interpreting certain software   invoices 
               received from a Stein Mart software service provider .  This error resulted in Stein Mart 
               understating its Selling, General and Administrative expenses by approximately $2 
               million over a certain period – an error that Stein Mart disclosed in its earnings release 
               for the second quarter of 2012.  In the May 2013 restatement, Stein Mart stated that this 
               error reflected a material weakness in its internal control over financial reporting. 

                                                VIOLATIONS 

           29. Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-and-desist 
               order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision 
               of the Act and upon any other person that is, was, or would be a cause of the violation, 
               due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would contribute to 
               such violation. 

           30. Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to file such periodic and other reports 
               as the Commission may prescribe and in conformity with such rules as the Commission 
               may promulgate.  Exchange Act Rules 13a -1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 require the filing of 
               annual, current, and quarterly reports, respectively.  In addition to the information 
               expressly required to be included in such reports, Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act 
               requires issuers to add such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to 
               make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are 
                                                        7 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

              made not misleading.  “The reporting provisions of the Exchange Act are clear and 
              unequivocal, and they are satisfied only by the filing of complete, accurate, and timely 
              reports.”  SEC v. Savoy Industries , 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978) (citing SEC v. 
              IMC Int’1, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex. 1974)).  A violation of the reporting 
              provisions is established if a report is shown to contain materially false or misleading 
              information.  SEC v. Kalvex, Inc. , 425 F. Supp. 310, 316 (S.D.N.Y. 1975). 

           31. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep books, 
              records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
              transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.”  Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
              Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting 
              controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as 
              necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
              accepted accounting principles. 

           32. By engaging in the conduct above, Stein Mart violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
              and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, and Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 
              13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

                              COOPERATION AND REMEDIAL ACTION 

           33. In determining to accept Respondent’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
              undertaken by Stein Mart, including its enhancement of internal controls, retention of 
              additional accounting personnel, and Stein Mart’s cooperation with the staff’s 
              investigation. 

                                                     IV. 

              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
       agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 

              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that:  

              A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent cease and desist from 
       committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), an 
       13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

              B.     Respondent shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money 
       penalty in the amount of $800,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
       general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3) .  If timely 
       payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717.  Payment 
       must be made in one of the following three ways: 

                                                       8 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                      (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                                                                                                2
                          will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request ; 

                      (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                          through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/of   fices/ofin.htm; or 

                      (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                          States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                          Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

               Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
       Stein Mart as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
       copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Antonia Chion, Division of 
       Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-
       5720. 

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                

                                                        
       2
               The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $1,000,000.   For amounts below the 
       threshold, respondents must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3) above. 

                                                       9 
 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

               C.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall 
       be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
       preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
       Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
       award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
       penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such 
       a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
       granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount 
       of the Penalty Offset to the Securities Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
       deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
       penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
       means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
       investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
       Commission in this proceeding.  

               By the Commission. 

                                                            

                                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                                           Secretary 
        

                                                       10 
 
 
 
4845-7691-2677.4 
