---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                                                                               

                                                                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                                                          Before the 
                                                                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                                  
                                                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                 Release No. 79368 / November 21, 2016 
                                                  
                                                 INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
                                                 Release No. 4572 / November 21, 2016 
                                                  
                                                 ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
                                                 Release No. 3826 / November 21, 2016 
                                                  
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
                                                 File No. 3-17694 
                                                  
                                                                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
                                                 In the Matter of                                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND  CEASE-AND-
                                                                                                  DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                                        GRASSI & CO. , CPAs, P.C. ,               SECTION  4C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                                                                                  EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  ,  SECTION  
                                                 Respondent.                                      203(k) OF THE  INVESTMENT 
                                                                                                  ADVISERS ACT  OF 1940 AND RULE 
                                                                                                  102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES 
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                  
                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                        
 
                                                                                             I. 
                                                  
                                                        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
                                                 public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
                                                                                                                           1
                                                 Grassi & Co., CPAs, P.C., (“Grassi” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities 
                                                 Exchange Act of 1934   (“Exchange Act”), Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 
                                                                                                                             2
                                                 (“Advisers Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                                                                            
                                                 1
                                                   Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
                                                        The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
                                                        privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
                                                        (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
                                                        or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
                                                        willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
                                                        laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
                                                 2 
                                                  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
                                                        The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
                                                  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                       

                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over Respondent and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order 
Instituting Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                 III. 
                                                    
                                                                                     3
          On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds      that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       1.      Grassi served as independent auditor for several private funds advised by 
ClearPath Wealth Management, LLC (“ClearPath”) and ClearPath’s principal, Patrick 
Churchville (“Churchville”) between January 2012 and January 2013.  During that time, Grassi 
issued nine audit reports containing unqualified opinions on the financial statements for four 
different funds, for years ended 2009 through 2011.  From 2010 forward, however, ClearPath 
and Churchville were defrauding the funds they advised, and the investors in those funds, by 
misappropriating fund assets and by making repeated misstatements to investors about the value 
and existence of fund investments.  For its part, Grassi repeatedly violated professional standards 
while failing to heed indications of ClearPath’s and Churchville’s fraud.  As a result of its 
negligence, five of Grassi’s nine audit reports were materially false.  This enabled ClearPath and 
Churchville to continue to report to limited partners materially inflated values of their 
investments without contradiction, to conceal use of limited partners’ investments for their own 
benefit, and continue their scheme to defraud the funds and their investors unimpeded.  Grassi 
thereby engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the 
Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, and was a cause of 
ClearPath’s and Churchville’s violations of Sections 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and 
Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder. 
         

                                                                                                                                                                                           
       practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
       professional conduct. 
3
 The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or entity in 
this or any other proceeding. 

                                                  2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                               

B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       2.     Grassi is a New York domestic professional corporation and is registered with the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board as a public accounting firm with its headquarters 
in Jericho, New York.  Grassi acquired the public accounting firm Pustorino, Puglisi & Co., LLP 
(“Pustorino”) effective January 1, 2012. 
        
C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUAL 
 
       3.     ClearPath is a Delaware limited liability company (“LLC”) and an investment 
adviser that was licensed by the State of Rhode Island with its principal place of business in 
Barrington, Rhode Island.  ClearPath was registered with the Commission as an investment 
adviser beginning January 3, 2008 through November 16, 2012 (SEC File No. 801-68715).  
ClearPath is the manager of several LLCs that were the general partners of five private funds.  
ClearPath was also the adviser to these private funds pursuant to management agreements 
between ClearPath and each of the funds.  On May 7, 2015, the Commission filed a civil 
complaint alleging fraud charges against ClearPath and its owner, Patrick Evans Churchville, in 
the United States District Court for the District of Rhode Island.  Securities and Exchange 
Commission v. ClearPath Wealth Management, LLC, Patrick Evans Churchville, as Defendants, 
and ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund I, L.P., ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund II, L.P., ClearPath 
Multi-Strategy Fund III, L.P., and HCR Value Fund, L.P., as Relief Defendants, Civil Action No. 
15-cv-00191 (D.R.I. May 7, 2015).  ClearPath is now run by a court-appointed receiver. 
        
       4.     Churchville, age 47, lives in Barrington, Rhode Island.  He is the sole owner and 
President of ClearPath.  On August 4, 2016, Churchville pled guilty to five counts of wire fraud 
and one count of tax evasion, in criminal charges alleging misconduct also alleged in the 
Commission’s complaint.  United States of America v. Patrick Churchville, (CR 16 00068, D. 
R.I. July 5, 2016). 
        
       5.     The four private funds managed by ClearPath and Churchville for which Grassi 
provided audit and tax services were (collectively, the “Funds”): 
        
              a.  ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund I, L.P. (“MSF I”), formerly known as 
                  ClearPath Private Equity Fund, L.P., is a Delaware limited partnership formed 
                  in 2008.   
                   
              b.  ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund II, L.P. (“MSF II”) is a Delaware limited 
                  partnership formed in 2011.  
                   
              c.  ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund III, L.P. (“MSF III”), formerly known as 
                  the ClearPath Healthcare Receivables Investments Fund L.P., is a Delaware 
                  limited partnership formed in 2009. 
                   
              d.  ClearPath Alternative Investments Fund, L.P. (“CPAI”) was a Delaware 
                  limited partnership formed in 2009.  As of January 1, 2012, this Fund was 
                  merged into MSF I. 

                                              3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                                                                                     

D.     FACTS 
 
                     Grassi’s Relationship with ClearPath and the Funds 
 
       6.      ClearPath retained Pustorino on behalf of three of the four Funds as their 
independent auditor in November 2011 (for MSF I, MSF III and CPAI).  When Pustorino 
merged with Grassi in January 2012, the audit work was transitioned to Grassi.  In May 2012, 
ClearPath retained Grassi for the audit of MSF II.  Grassi was engaged to audit the Funds in 
accordance with U.S. generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) and express an opinion 
about whether the Funds’ financial statements were fairly presented, in all material respects, in 
                                                                             4
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).   Grassi was also 
engaged to prepare all required tax returns, including Forms K-1, for the Funds’ partners for the 
2011 calendar year. 
        
       7.      Grassi issued nine audit reports expressing an unqualified opinion on the fair 
presentation of the financial statements between April 2012 and January 2013 for the Funds.  
The table below identifies each audit report issued by Grassi including the audit report date. 

                           MSF I             MSF II            MSF III              CPAI 
             
         2009            6/12/2012         Not Audited         4/19/2012         Not Audited 

         2010             7/2/2012         Not Audited         6/11/2012          4/19/2012 

         2011            1/29/2013          1/22/2013          1/29/2013          1/26/2013 

        
       8.      ClearPath sent Grassi’s audit reports to the custodian for the vast majority of the 
Funds’ limited partner investors.  

                         Grassi’s Audit Planning and Fund Structure 
                                                   
       9.      The Funds’ predecessor auditor sent ClearPath a resignation letter in October 
2011 stating it could not complete the audits for MSF I and MSF III for the year ended 
December 31, 2009 because it had “…not received satisfactory documentation to support 
significant audit objectives related to certain investment and partner withdrawal transactions.”   
This letter, which originally was sent to Pustorino, was included in Grassi’s audit workpapers.  
Citing the reasons for the prior auditor’s resignation, Grassi assessed the audit risk related to the 
Investments and Equity sections as “significant.”  Grassi’s risk assessment prescribed “extended” 
audit procedures for the Investments area and in the 2011 workpapers required 100% 
confirmation of partners’ contribution and withdrawal activity in the Equity area. 
        

                                                           
4
 References to auditing standards in this Order are to generally accepted auditing standards in effect at the time the 
audit work was performed.  Grassi was engaged to audit the ClearPath Funds in accordance with GAAS 
promulgated by the Auditing Standards Board (“ASB”) of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.  
The references are to standards as they existed before the ASB’s clarification project, which was effective for audits 
of financial statements for the years ending on or after December 15, 2012. 

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                                                                                   

       10.    Grassi’s audit planning documents did not address the risk presented by the 
Funds’ series structure.  The ClearPath Funds were organized as series funds.   Each series 
within each Fund generally invested in one investment (e.g., limited partnership interests, 
secured debt instruments, or private equity).  Limited partners, through their subscription 
agreements, designated in which specific series they wanted to invest.  The Limited Partnership 
Agreements for each Fund established the series structure and how each series was intended to 
stand alone: 
        
               “The Partnership’s assets shall be divided into separate series…and each 
               Series shall generally be accounted for as a ‘sub-partnership’ for purposes 
               of this Agreement…the interests in any Series shall be considered a 
               separate Series from interests in any other Series…the debts, liabilities and 
               obligations incurred, contracted for or otherwise existing with respect to 
               any one Series shall be enforceable against the assets of such Series only 
               and not against the assets of the Partnership generally or of any other 
               Series.” 
                   
       11.    Despite the fact that the Funds’ governing documents specified that each series 
must be accounted for as a sub-partnership and that the assets and liabilities of each series could 
not be commingled with any other series, Grassi did not identify inter-series commingling as an 
          5
audit risk. 

                           Oppenheimer & Co. Investment (MSF I) 
                                                  
       12.    One of the series in MSF I was called the Oppenheimer Public Markets series.  
ClearPath raised approximately $4.9 million from various limited partners in August 2011 and 
established a brokerage account at Oppenheimer & Co. (“OPCO”) where the cash was deposited.  
ClearPath used the cash to purchase short-term U.S. government and agency bonds.  As of 
December 31, 2011, the OPCO account had a balance of $4.8 million, which represented 23% of 
total partners’ capital in MSF I. 
        
       13.    In connection with the MSF I audit for the year ended December 31, 2011, Grassi 
sent an audit confirmation to OPCO in May 2012 to confirm investment balances as of 
December 31, 2011 and the transactions for the year then ended.  OPCO sent its confirmation 
response directly to Grassi.  In addition to the account in the name of the Fund, which held the 
bonds, OPCO’s response disclosed that ClearPath and Churchville had also opened a margin 
account in the same name as the Fund, and an account in the name of MSF I’s general partner.  
As part of the confirmation response, OPCO also provided monthly account statements for all 
three accounts for all of 2011.  Together, the monthly account statements for the three accounts 
showed that immediately after depositing investors’ cash with OPCO, ClearPath and Churchville 
had borrowed against the $4.9 million investment and withdrawn $4.1 million of the loan 
proceeds in wire transfers to ClearPath’s bank account.  As alleged in the Commission’s 
complaint against ClearPath and Churchville, Churchville used $2.5 million of the margin loan 
                                                           
5
 ClearPath maintained only one bank account for each Fund, which further elevated the risk of prohibited inter-
series commingling. 

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                                                                                 

proceeds to purchase Churchville’s personal residence overlooking Narragansett Bay in 
Barrington, Rhode Island and $1.6 million of the proceeds to cover-up losses from 
misappropriation in MSF III as outlined in the following sections.  
        
       14.    The Grassi junior auditor who obtained the OPCO statements sent an email to the 
Funds’ administrator on July 2, 2012, inquiring about the margin account: 
        
              “We received the December 2011 bank statements from Oppenheimer – 
              see attached – there are two accounts, do you know why one has a 
              negative balance of $4.1 million?” 
               
       15.    On July 9, 2012, the administrator responded to the Grassi junior auditor that the 
administrator would have to discuss the issue with ClearPath because: 
        
              “I have never seen the statements or the other account with the negative 
              balance.  I have to find out what this account is and then I will get back to 
              you about this.  This might change everything for the [OPCO] class.” 
              (emphasis added)  
               
       16.    There is no evidence that Grassi completed its discussion with the Funds’ 
administrator, discussed the accounts with its client, or applied any further audit procedures to 
the previously undisclosed accounts.  Grassi’s workpapers did not mention the margin account or 
the material cash withdrawals from the account in favor of ClearPath.  Workpapers also did not 
include the email exchange above or otherwise document Grassi’s decision not to include 
information regarding the margin account in the workpapers.   
        
       17.    In April 2012, when the sole investment in the account, the U.S. Treasury bonds, 
matured, OPCO did not allow Churchville to roll over the proceeds to a new investment.  
Instead, OPCO applied the cash generated from the maturity of the bonds to the outstanding 
margin account, paying down the loan balance with the redemption proceeds, reducing the value 
of the OPCO Series to just under $600,000.  In October 2012, ClearPath transferred the 
remaining cash in the OPCO account to a bank account it did not disclose to Grassi or to the 
ClearPath Fund administrator in the name of MSF I.  All of these transactions occurred after 
MSF I’s December 31, 2011 balance sheet date, but months before Grassi issued its audit report.  
Grassi auditors did not request or review any OPCO account statements after the balance sheet 
date. 
        
       18.    On January 29, 2013, Grassi issued its audit report containing an unqualified audit 
opinion for MSF I for the year ended December 31, 2011.  The audited financial statements 
reflected a $4.8 million value for the OPCO investment when the true value, as determined from 
the information in OPCO’s confirmation response to Grassi, was less than $650,000 at year-end 
2011.  The footnotes to the audited financial statements made no reference to the existence of the 
margin account, or the material related party transactions with ClearPath.  The audited financial 
statements were materially misstated as a result.  Limited partners in the ClearPath Funds lost 
$4.1 million in connection with ClearPath and Churchville’s theft of OPCO assets.  

                                                 

                                               6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                                                                                 

                            Feingold O’Keeffe (MSF I and CPAI)       

       19.    The largest portfolio holding in MSF I (approximately 51% of total partners’ 
capital), and the only holding in CPAI, as of December 31, 2011, were limited partner interests 
in the Feingold O’Keeffe Distressed Loan Fund, L.P. (“Feingold O’Keeffe”). 
        
       20.    In connection with the Funds’ audits for the year ended December 31, 2011, 
Grassi sent audit confirmations to Feingold O’Keeffe in May 2012 to confirm the capital 
balances as of December 31, 2011 and the transactions for the year then ended.  Feingold 
O’Keeffe completed the audit confirmations and attached the December 31, 2011 statements of 
partner’s capital for MSF I and CPAI, the Forms K-1, as well as the audited financial statements 
for the Feingold O’Keeffe limited partnership.  
        
       21.    Each of the first three pages of the confirmation response filed in both MSF I and 
CPAI workpapers included references indicating that the investments were “pledged.”   The face 
of the confirmation form bears a handwritten note stating, “note > Account is subject to a pledge 
agreement dated 2011.”  In December 2011, Churchville and ClearPath had secured a $7 million 
line of credit from a Massachusetts-based bank by pledging the Feingold O’Keeffe assets held by 
MSF I and CPAI as collateral.  The line of credit agreement also included a personal guarantee 
of Churchville, and corporate guarantees of ClearPath and the MSF I general partner.  By 
January 9, 2012, ClearPath had borrowed $3.75 million against the line of credit and used the 
proceeds to pay for investments, which were not recorded in the books and records of any 
ClearPath Fund. 
        
       22.    At the end of 2012, ClearPath and Churchville instructed Feingold O’Keeffe to 
redeem the MSF I and CPAI investments, and Feingold O’Keeffe’s December 31, 2012 capital 
account statements reflected the complete redemption.  ClearPath used the Feingold O’Keeffe 
redemption proceeds to pay down the credit line balance in January 2013.   
        
       23.    Grassi auditors did not inquire of ClearPath, its administrator or Feingold 
O’Keeffe about the meaning of the “pledged” notification and its effect on the MSF I and CPAI 
financial statements subject to Grassi’s audit.  The financial statements did not reflect that 
ClearPath had entered into the line of credit as of the end of 2011, and Grassi did not propose an 
audit disclosure that the audited financial statements disclose that after year end ClearPath had 
liquidated the Feingold O’Keeffe investment and used the proceeds to pay down the credit line 
balance.  Grassi also did not request or review Feingold O’Keeffe statements after the December 
31, 2011 balance sheet date.  The audited financial statements did not disclose that ClearPath and 
Churchville used proceeds due to Feingold O’Keeffe series limited partners for their own 
purposes, and were therefore materially misstated.  Limited partners in the Feingold O’Keeffe 
series lost $3.75 million of their investment due to unauthorized borrowing under the undisclosed 
credit line outlined above. 

                                 Managed Futures (MSF III) 
 
       24.    In December 2010, ClearPath redeemed the MSF III’s largest portfolio holding, 
referred to as the Managed Futures series.  This redemption resulted in a $6.6 million cash 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

                                                                                                  

deposit into the MSF III bank account on December 22, 2010.  This transaction initiated a string 
of conspicuous transfers between MSF III series and between Funds in clear violation of the 
Funds’ offering documents.  ClearPath and Churchville attempted to cover up the misconduct by 
posting unsupported accounting entries.  The 2010 audited financial statements for MSF III show 
that the limited partners’ capital accounts were reduced to zero as of December 31, 2010 and the 
MSF III balance sheet included a Distributions Payable liability balance of approximately $6.5 
million. 
        
       25.    Instead of distributing all of the Managed Futures proceeds to the applicable 
limited partners in the series, Churchville transferred approximately $400,000 of the Managed 
Futures proceeds to ClearPath to cover administrative expenses.  The MSF III limited partnership 
agreement obligated ClearPath to pay for the Fund’s administrative expenses using the 
management and organization fees that it earned from the Funds, rather than investment 
proceeds.  This transaction was reflected in the 2010 audited financial statements as a receivable 
Due from Investment Manager. 
        
       26.    On December 30, 2010, in the last transaction of the year, ClearPath and 
Churchville used approximately $1.0 million of the Managed Futures proceeds to make an 
investment in Drug Discovery Fund I, LLC (“DD1”), but ClearPath did not allocate any equity to 
limited partners in connection with the DD1 investment.  As a result, the 2010 MSF III audited 
financial statements reflected an error (a $1 million difference between partners’ contributions 
and the portfolio investments balance for the DD1 series) on their face.   
        
       27.    In January 2011, ClearPath distributed approximately $4.9 million of the 
Managed Futures proceeds to limited partners, reducing the cash balance in MSF III to less than 
$400,000.  MSF III had a continuing obligation to pay the remaining $1.6 million of distributions 
owed to the limited partners in the Managed Futures series.  Grassi received and included in its 
audit workpapers cash activity schedules from ClearPath and its administrator that reflected that 
the Managed Futures series no longer had assets sufficient to satisfy this debt.  These 
transactions were red flags of ClearPath’s and Churchville’s improper conduct.  Yet Grassi’s 
workpapers did not include evidence regarding how MSF III would be able to fund the 
remaining $1.6 million of distributions payable to Managed Futures investors with less than 
$400,000 cash and no other assets attributable to the series. 
        
       28.    In July 2011, ClearPath and Churchville raised approximately $2.1 million from 
limited partners to establish a new series in MSF III for a loan to Receivable Partners, LLC 
(“Receivable Partners”), purportedly to purchase a portfolio of healthcare receivables.  However, 
instead of remitting the capital to Receivable Partners for the new investment (“RP5”), ClearPath 
and Churchville diverted $1.6 million of new investors’ money to pay off the remaining 
obligations to the Managed Futures investors. 
        
       29.    On September 2, 2011, ClearPath and Churchville deposited approximately $1.6 
million into the MSF III bank account in a series of 14 intra-bank transfers all sourced from 
ClearPath’s bank account.  ClearPath and Churchville used these deposits, with existing money 
in the MSF III account, to pay Receivable Partners the $2.1 million for the RP5 investment from 
which ClearPath and Churchville misappropriated investor proceeds in July.  

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                                                                                 

         
       30.    Had Grassi traced the source of the $1.6 million deposits into MSF III’s account 
back through the cash activity schedules and confirmation responses already in its possession, 
Grassi could have discovered that the $1.6 million was deposited only two days after ClearPath 
and Churchville transferred $1.6 million from the OPCO margin account to the same ClearPath 
bank account.  The $1.6 million was misappropriated from investors in MSF I to cover up losses 
from ClearPath’s and Churchville’s misappropriation in MSF III, which was evident from 
Grassi’s workpapers. 
        
       31.    ClearPath and Churchville posted several unsupported journal entries that masked 
the misappropriation scheme.  Had Grassi followed its own audit program, it could have 
discovered that the journal entries contained red flags.  ClearPath and Churchville had caused 
four unsupported journal entries to be posted to the MSF III general ledger with effective dates 
of March, April, May and August 2011 to credit ClearPath with equity ownership in the DD1 
series.  These entries increased ClearPath’s ownership in the series by approximately $1.2 
million but were not tied to contemporaneous cash investments in the series by ClearPath and 
were not accompanied by any subscription documents evidencing the investment.  Since there 
was no cash received by the Fund for each of these ClearPath “investments,” the entries 
increased the “Due from Investment Manager” receivable balance.  By August 2011, the “Due 
from Investment Manager” account had ballooned to $1.6 million.  ClearPath and Churchville 
caused the balance of the “Due from Investment Manager” account to be improperly recorded as 
repaid when ClearPath transferred the $1.6 million of OPCO money it misappropriated from 
MSF I to cover the hole ClearPath created in MSF III in September 2011. 
        
       32.    Grassi’s workpapers related to the 2011 audit of MSF III included a detailed 
schedule of “partner allocations” which showed all contributions, withdrawals and allocations of 
profit, loss and expenses for each partner’s capital account in each series.  Grassi’s audit plan, 
developed in part in response to the risks raised by the prior auditor, required Grassi to confirm 
100% of partner contribution and withdrawal activity with the partners in the Fund.  The Grassi 
workpapers for the DD1 series showed Grassi traced all capital transactions in the series to 
confirmations, subscription documents or withdrawal notices except for the $1.2 million in 
capital contributions ascribed to ClearPath. There were no contemporaneous cash receipts and no 
corresponding subscription agreements accompanying ClearPath’s reported capital contributions 
to the DD1 series.  Related party transactions should receive appropriate scrutiny under GAAS 
pursuant to AU § 334, but Grassi did not perform sufficient audit procedures on these related 
party transactions. 
        
       33.    When ClearPath and Churchville transferred the $1.6 million of OPCO loan 
proceeds from MSF I into MSF III on September 2, 2011, the “Due from Investment Manager” 
receivable account was reduced accordingly.  ClearPath never repaid its $400,000 loan to MSF 
III and ClearPath was allocated a material investment in the DD1 series without contributing any 
of its own cash. 
        
       34.    The 2011 MSF III audited financial statements were materially misstated due to 
the transactions above because they (a) allocated unsupported equity to ClearPath in the DD1 
series, (b) did not reflect a payable due from MSF III to MSF I for the $1.6 million transferred 

                                               9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                                                                             

from the OPCO series, and (c) did not disclose the existence and nature of a series of unusual 
and material related party transactions.   

                Fair Value of Receivable Partners Loans (MSF III and MSF II) 
 
        35.     In the fair value hierarchy under GAAP, the best evidence of fair value are quoted 
prices in active markets (Level 1), followed by evidence other than quoted prices that is 
observable for the asset (Level 2).  The least reliable valuations are those based on unobservable 
                                                                                                      6  
inputs reflecting the reporting entity’s own assumptions (Level 3).  (FASB ASC 820-10-35).  
         
        36.     A significant portion of the Funds’ assets reflected in the financial statements for 
the year ended December 31, 2011 were valued using methodologies relying on Level 3 inputs.  
According to the 2011 audited financial statements for MSF III and MSF II, approximately 85% 
and 49% of the Funds’ portfolio investments relied on Level 3 inputs, respectively.  The majority 
of these assets in both Funds were secured loans made to Receivable Partners during 2011, 
accounting for approximately 62% and 26% of total partners’ capital in MSF III and MSF II, 
              7
respectively.   
         
        37.     Despite its recognition of the audit risks associated with those assets, Grassi 
inaccurately documented its planned audit procedures for assets relying on Level 3 inputs, and 
failed to conduct adequate audit procedures to obtain evidence regarding the value of the largest 
                                                   8
investments in the MSF II and MSF III Funds.          
         

        38.     Grassi failed to document its planned audit procedures for the assets relying on 
Level 3 inputs in MSF III, and as a result, the audit program for the largest ClearPath Fund was 
devoid of procedures to sufficiently test management’s assertion of their fair value as required by 
GAAS. 
         
        39.     In workpapers related to the 2011 audit procedures for the fair values of MSF II 
and MSF III investments based on Level 3 inputs, Grassi’s procedures were deficient because 
Grassi accepted as sufficient appropriate audit evidence the ClearPath-prepared valuation reports 
without performing substantive procedures on the information contained in the reports.  Grassi 
also failed to recognize errors in those valuation reports that directly affected the reported fair 
       9
values.    For example, each report included a discounted cash flow model to support the 

                                                           
6
 Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820, Fair Value 
Measurement. 
7 
 Receivable Partners, LLC had no operational history.  It was formed at the same time as MSF III’s initial 
investment in early 2011. 
8 
 Grassi’s workpapers highlighted the fair value of investments as one of the most significant risks in its audit 
planning documentation for the 2011 audits of the Funds and reflected the engagement partner’s view that the prior 
auditor had resigned because it was “uncomfortable auditing Level 3 investments.” 
9
 ClearPath had retained a valuation consultant to assist it in preparing the valuation reports, but the consultant 
informed Grassi that it did not perform sufficient work to sign off as the preparer on the reports.  ClearPath, not the 
consultant, prepared the valuation reports for those assets, and the valuation reports do not refer to any involvement 
by a specialist.  Nevertheless, in both the MSF II and MSF III audit workpapers, Grassi prepared a “SAS 73 Memo,” 
 

                                                    10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                                                                                                       

assertion of fair value.  ClearPath’s assumptions in each model included estimated future cash 
flows and discount rates used to determine the present value of the loan.  ClearPath’s discounted 
cash flow models included errors in the data and assumptions, but Grassi accepted them without 
performing appropriate procedures regarding their reasonableness.  For example, the discounted 
cash flow model for the first and largest of the seven Receivable Partners loans in MSF III 
attributed $945,000 in fair value to certain interest payments in 2012 that were never made by 
the time of the audit report issuance in January 2013.  The last quarterly interest payment made 
on the underlying loan occurred 355 days before the date of Grassi’s audit report. 
        
       40.    Grassi was aware that ClearPath had not received the 2012 interest payments for 
that same loan, but did not propose an adjustment to management’s asserted fair value.  A 
November 2012 workpaper titled, “Subsequent Interest Receipts on Loans – 2012,” reflected that 
two payments due in May and August 2012 were not received, yet Grassi concluded that “…the 
loans are performing as expected.”  The conclusion that “the loans are performing as expected” 
applied to six of the seven Receivable Partners loans in MSF III (the seventh loan was not 
subject to this audit test), but in fact, only the two most recent loans were current when Grassi 
conducted its testing in August 2012.  Each of the other four loans subject to Grassi’s testing was 
behind in its interest payments.  Grassi also did not consider the impact of this information on its 
assessment of the collectability of the subsequent capital and interest payments on the loans. 
        
       41.    Grassi also performed insufficient procedures to test the existence, valuation, 
rights, and access to or transferability of the collateral underlying the secured debt investments in 
the Receivable Partners loans.  While ClearPath provided Grassi with UCC filings which were 
filed months after each loan’s origination, these forms only provided the “aggregate face value” 
of receivables reportedly purchased by Receivable Partners.  Grassi’s workpapers did not reflect 
any testing to evaluate the underlying portfolio of the acquired receivables or to verify whether 
MSF II and MSF III had effective rights to transfer the collateral in the event of Receivable 
Partners’ default. 

         Subsequent Write-Down of Receivable Partners Loans (MSF III and MSF II) 
                
       42.    In November 2012, Grassi followed up with ClearPath about the issue of the 
missed interest payments by Receivable Partners discussed above.  Churchville emailed the 
Grassi engagement partner in December 2012 and explained that ClearPath wrote down the 
value of the loans upon technical default in September 2012.  
        
       43.    On January 7, 2013, Churchville emailed three auditors on the engagement team 
and attached two reports prepared by a third-party consultant (“Consultant”) that contained 
purported collateral files that ClearPath was negotiating to have assigned to it in lieu of payment 

                                                                                                                                                                                           
pursuant to Statement on Auditing Standards No. 73 (“SAS 73”) (subsequently codified as AU § 336 – Using the 
Work of a Specialist) which is intended to document an auditor’s use of a specialist’s work as audit evidence.  While 
the SAS 73 memo in part asserted that the “specialist’s report” could be used for purposes of the audit of the 
financial statements of MSF II and MSF III and that Grassi intended to rely on the valuation consultant “as 
specialists,” Grassi concluded that it “…did not rely on [the valuation consultant], but merely utilized their 
assistance in gaining comfort on the loan valuations.” 

                                                 11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                                                                                                    

by Receivable Partners.  Grassi included the email and attached reports in its workpapers.  The 
reports, totaling more than 1,300 pages, provided data on two pools of healthcare receivables 
acquired from a hospital group, but they did not identify the date of acquisition nor the acquirer.  
The reports were last updated in February and March 2011, nearly two years before the Grassi 
audit report and did not describe any connection between the Consultant and the healthcare 
receivable portfolios to Receivable Partners.  ClearPath provided no evidence, and there is no 
documentation in Grassi’s audit workpapers reflecting that Grassi attempted to verify that the 
                                                                            10
reported collateral related in any way to the ClearPath Funds’ investments.   
        
       44.    Grassi’s sole inquiry about the collateral report was made to Churchville directly.  
On January 8, 2013, after a meeting with Grassi’s engagement partner and “QC department,” the 
senior manager on the Grassi engagement team emailed Churchville reminding him that Grassi 
had asked to speak with Receivable Partners in an earlier telephone call, and asking again 
whether there was “…anyone at [Receivable Partners] who can discuss their analysis of the 
underlying pool at 12/31/11 and going forward through today?”  Churchville, citing “legal 
negotiations,” claimed there was no one at Receivable Partners who would be “forthcoming with 
any more information until we reach an agreement or they resume payments and make us whole 
(which they are still claiming they will do ASAP).”   
        
       45.    A Grassi subsequent events memo dated less than a week later documented 
Grassi’s conclusion that the 2012 write down of the Receivable Partners loan values did not 
require an adjustment to the numbers included in the 2011 financial statements because there was 
“no reason to believe the loans were impaired at 12/31/11.”  The memo did not address the fact 
that Grassi asked two times to contact Receivable Partners to discuss the status of the healthcare 
receivables pools, but that Churchville denied this request. The fact that Churchville rebuffed 
auditors’ requests to independently verify the collateral for the largest investments in MSF III 
should have caused Grassi to undertake more audit procedures.  Instead, Grassi accepted all of 
Churchville’s representations and performed no substantive testing procedures to verify the 
existence, valuation and transferability of the loan collateral or the status of negotiations and 
likelihood of successful resolution.   
        
       46.    The audited financial statements disclosed that ClearPath wrote down the fair 
value of the Receivable Partners loans significantly in 2012.  The write downs were $10.4 
million in MSF III and $18,000 in MSF II and represented 52% and 18%, respectively, of the 
December 31, 2011 values of the loans reported in the Funds’ audited financial statements.  
Grassi included an explanatory paragraph in its 2011 audit reports issued in January 2013 for 
both Funds referencing the write down, which Grassi referred to as a significant “impairment.”  
The audited financial statements also included a subsequent events note discussing the issue 
(excerpt from MSF III’s financial statements): 
        

                                                           
10
  The total face value of the alleged collateral in the Consultant’s report was over $900 million which was more 
than three times the minimum aggregate face value of the receivables securing the MSF III and MSF II loans 
according to the UCC filings included in Grassi’s workpapers.  There is no documentation in Grassi’s workpapers 
that attempts to explain this inconsistency. 

                                                12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                                                                                                     

       “In August of 2012, it was determined by management that the loans made to 
       Receivable Partners, LLC (the ‘Borrower’) became impaired due to the lack of 
       the receipt of scheduled interest payments specified in the loan agreements.  
       Management issued demand letters for those amounts to be paid and is currently 
       in settlement discussion [sic] with the Borrower.  For the third quarter of 2012, 
       management has reduced the valuation of these loans significantly.  The reduction 
       is approximately 52% or $10,400,000.” 

       47.    Receivable Partners was a sham organization, founded in early 2011 through the 
collusive efforts of Churchville and Jonathan E. Rosenberg.  The ClearPath Funds had prior 
investments in healthcare receivables instruments with another Rosenberg entity, JER 
Receivables, LLC (“JER Receivables”) dating back to 2008.  These investments began to 
deteriorate in 2010 and 2011.  In order to mask the collapse of the JER Receivables investments, 
Churchville and Rosenberg established Receivable Partners in January 2011 for the purpose of 
“refinancing” the JER Receivables investments.  Churchville and ClearPath raised more than $20 
million from new limited partners in MSF III and MSF II for Receivable Partners loans 
purportedly to finance the purchase of new healthcare receivables portfolios.  Instead, with 
Churchville’s knowledge and direction, Rosenberg transferred the cash from Receivable Partners 
over to JER Receivables and sent it back to the Funds to close out the prior investments in JER 
Receivables in MSF I and MSF III.  After the JER Receivables investments were closed out, the 
last several rounds of capital raised for Receivable Partners loans were used to pay “interest” on 
the earlier Receivable Partners loans.  Receivable Partners never used any of the cash raised from 
MSF III or MSF II investors to purchase any healthcare receivables portfolios.  There was never 
any collateral underlying these investments which were reported with a fair value in excess of 
                                                                               11
$20 million on the 2011 audited financial statements for MSF III and MSF II.        Limited   p artners 
in the Receivable Partners series in MSF III and MSF II incurred losses in excess of $16 mi   llion.  

                           Supervision Review and Approval Issues 
        
       48.    Grassi permitted its engagement partner to approve release of the audit reports 
despite evidence that he had not conducted adequate review as part of his engagement partner 
responsibilities, and did not comply with firm policy with regard to quality control procedures in 
other audits.  Grassi had a single engagement partner for all nine ClearPath Fund audits, who 
authorized the release of each of Grassi’s audit reports.  Under GAAS, the engagement partner 
was “the auditor charged with final responsibility for the engagement[s].”  With respect to the 
two audits with the most significant errors, the 2011 audits of MSF I and MSF III, Grassi’s 
workpapers showed that the engagement partner signed off on only six of the 94 workpapers in 
the Grassi electronic workpaper binder for the 2011 audit of MSF I and only two of the 134 
workpapers in the 2011 MSF III audit.   
        

                                                           
11
  Rosenberg pleaded guilty to conspiracy to commit wire fraud in connection with a complex scheme to defraud 
investors and lenders by selling fraudulent investment portfolios of debts purportedly owed by hospital patients.  
United States v. Shusterman, Crim. No. WDQ-13-0460 (U.S. Dist. Ct. D. Md.); see also  
https://www.justice.gov/usao-md/pr/new-jersey-man-guilty-148-million-investment-fraud-scheme  

                                                13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                                                                 

       49.    The engagement partner was on medical leave for significant portions of 2012 
while the ClearPath audits were underway, and worked a sharply reduced work schedule from 
June through October 2012.  While the engagement partner was on medical leave and on a 
reduced work schedule, another Grassi partner took on the work that the engagement partner 
would typically have done, effectively replacing the engagement partner.  The replacement 
Grassi partner left Grassi effective December 31, 2012.   
        
       50.    The engagement partner then resumed that role on the ClearPath audits, but did 
not substantively review workpapers upon the return to the engagement as part of his 
engagement partner responsibilities before authorizing the release of the audit reports at the end 
of January 2013. 
        
       51.    Grassi permitted the engagement partner to continue to work on the ClearPath 
engagements and to sign audit reports, despite evidence that he did not comply with Grassi’s 
quality control procedures.  Grassi’s quality control procedures required Grassi to perform an 
engagement quality control review (“EQCR”) on all audit engagements.  In January 2013, Grassi 
senior executives discovered that the engagement partner had permitted the issuance of two non-
ClearPath audit reports under the Grassi name without subjecting the audits to EQCR.  After 
learning the engagement partner had circumvented firm policy, Grassi permitted the engagement 
partner to continue his contact with audit clients, including to solicit payment from ClearPath, 
and to approve Grassi’s release of the 2011 audit reports.  On January 24, 2013, the engagement 
partner reported in an email to Grassi’s Chief Administrative Officer that ClearPath had made a 
“substantial payment” and asked, “…can we take them off credit hold so we can start issuing 
statements and get paid for the remainder?”  On January 29, 2013, Grassi permitted the 
engagement partner to authorize the issuance of the 2011 reports for MSF I and MSF III.  Shortly 
thereafter, Grassi agreed to the engagement partner’s withdrawal from the firm.   
        
       52.    Grassi also permitted release of two ClearPath Fund audit reports despite failing 
to obtain certification from the engagement partner that audits were performed in accordance 
with GAAS.  Grassi used an off-the-shelf audit form called the Supervision, Review, and 
Approval Form (“SRA Form”) to document the completion of the detailed review, partner 
review and EQCR.  The SRA Form instructs that “[s]ufficient audit evidence includes evidence 
that the audit documentation has been reviewed.”  The SRA Form served as Grassi’s prescribed 
workpaper “to assist in performing and documenting the review” and to record that the audit 
work “…was conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards and applicable 
regulatory and legal requirements.”  According to the engagement partner, the SRA Form was 
“the final evidence of signing off…on the financial statements.”   
        
       53.    The SRA Forms for the 2011 audits of MSF I and MSF III financial statements 
did not accurately reflect which partner had completed the review to comply with GAAS at the 
time that the audit report was issued.  The electronic audit trail for the SRA Form for MSF I and 
MSF III also does not reflect that the engagement partner signed off on the release of the two 
audit reports.   
        
       54.    Grassi had a practice of obtaining email authorization from the members of the 
engagement team before releasing the audit reports, referred to as the “good to go” or “GTG” 

                                              14 
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                                                                                                                           

email.  Grassi permitted the engagement partner to approve the MSF III audit report merely by 
responding to the “GTG” email inquiry.   
          
         55.     The SRA Forms for those audits were inaccurate and incomplete at the time 
Grassi permitted the release of the 2011 MSF I and MSF III audit reports and as a result the 
workpapers did not properly document the reviewers’ certifications that the audits were 
performed in accordance with GAAS. 

                                Grassi’s Improper Professional Conduct – 
                     Violations of General, Planning and Supervision Standards 
                                                              
         56.     Grassi’s audit for the 2010 financial statements of MSF III and its audits for the 
2011 financial statements for MSF I, MSF II, MSF III and CPAI were deficient and not 
performed in accordance with GAAS.  Section 4C(b) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) define improper 
professional conduct with respect to persons licensed to practice as accountants.  “Improper 
professional conduct” includes two types of negligent conduct: (1) a single instance of highly 
unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of professional standards in circumstances in 
which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted; or (2) 
repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in violations of professional 
standards, that indicate a lack of competence. 
          
         57.     As set forth above, Grassi should have known that the five sets of financial 
statements accompanying the audit reports were materially misstated, yet Grassi issued audit 
reports containing an unqualified opinion on each.  Grassi reported that the audits were 
conducted in accordance with GAAS when they were not.  Grassi also reported that the financial 
statements were fairly presented in all material respects in accordance with GAAP when they 
were not.  The five false audit reports and the associated accounting and disclosure errors 
included, but were not limited to: 

                    Audit 
        Fund                        Material Errors and Omissions in Financial Statements 
                     Year 
       MSF III       2010       Material discrepancy between the investment and capital 
                                    balances in the DD1 series         
                                  Lack of     disclosure regarding the misappropriation of Managed 
                                    Futures series’ redemption proceeds
                                  Lack of     disclosure regarding the source of funding for the 
                                    Managed Futures distributions paid in 2011 including 
                                    prohibited inter    - fund transfers   
                                     
        MSF I        2011         MSF I financial statements          materially   overstate    the fair value 
        CPAI                        of the OPCO investment          by $4.1 million      
                                  MSF I and CPAI financials           lack  disclosure relating to the 
                                    pledge agreement encumbering the largest asset in both 
                                    Funds, Feingold O’Keeffe
                                  MSF I and CPAI financial statements              lack  disclosures 
                                    regarding material subsequent events, including              the complete 

                                                           15 
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                                                                                                    

                   Audit 
        Fund                      Material Errors and Omissions in Financial Statements 
                    Year 
                                  redemptions of the OPCO and Feingold O’Keeffe series
                                 MSF I and CPAI financials        lack  disclosures related to material 
                                  related party transactions with ClearPath including the 
                                  transfers of OPCO proceeds, and the Churchville and 
                                  ClearPath personal     and corporate guarantees       
                                    
      MSF III       2011         MSF III financials fail to disclose inter     - series and inter - fund 
       MSF II                     commingling and material related party transactions involving 
                                  the Managed Futures / DD1 / RP5 series           
                                 MSF II and MSF III financials materially          overstate   the value 
                                  of investments in Receivable Partners loans by           more than   $20 
                                  million   
                                   
                                                          

    Failure to Exercise Due Professional Care and Professional Skepticism (AU §§ 230, 316) 

        58.     GAAS requires auditors to exercise due professional care in the performance of 
the audit.  (AU § 230.01).  Auditors must maintain an attitude of professional skepticism, which 
includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  (AU § 230.07).  
Auditors should consider the competency and sufficiency of the evidence and exercise 
professional skepticism throughout the audit process.  (AU § 230.08).  An auditor should not be 
satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief that management is honest (AU 
§§ 230.09 and 316.13), and should: (1) perform an ongoing questioning of whether the 
information and evidence obtained suggests that a material misstatement due to fraud has 
occurred; and (2) conduct the engagement with a mindset that recognizes that a material 
misstatement due to fraud could be present, regardless of past experience with the entity and the 
auditors’ belief about management’s honesty and integrity. (AU § 316.13). 
         
        59.     As a result of Grassi’s conduct described throughout, Grassi failed to exercise due 
professional care and professional skepticism in its 2010 audit of MSF III and its 2011 audits of 
MSF I, MSF II, MSF III and CPAI. 

                              Failure to Properly Plan the Audit (AU § 311) 

        60.     GAAS requires the auditor to adequately plan the work and properly supervise 
any assistants. (AU § 311.01).  Audit planning involves developing an overall audit strategy for 
the expected conduct, organization and staffing of the audit.  (AU § 311.02).  The overall audit 
strategy should consider areas of higher risks of material misstatement and determine which 
resources should be assigned to the audit and how the resources are to be managed, directed and 
supervised. (AU § 311.14-15).  Once the audit strategy has been established, the auditor should 
develop a more detailed audit plan to achieve the audit objectives.  (AU § 311.17).  The audit 
plan should include a description of the nature, timing and extent of planned risk assessment 
procedures sufficient to assess the risks of material misstatement and further procedures at the 
relevant assertion level for each material class of transactions, account balance and disclosure 

                                                        16 
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                                                                                   

and any other audit procedures in order to comply with GAAS. (AU § 311.21).  Planning is not a 
discrete phase of the audit, but rather an iterative process.  If, as a result of performing planned 
audit procedures, the auditor obtains disconfirming evidence, the auditor may need to revise the 
overall audit strategy. (AU § 311.03). 
        
       61.    Grassi failed to include audit procedures whose nature, timing and extent were 
appropriately responsive to the risk presented by the Funds’ series structure, and thereby failed to 
note ClearPath and Churchville’s many inter-series and inter-fund transactions undertaken in 
violation of fund governing documents.  Grassi also failed to plan appropriate procedures to 
audit the valuation of Level 3 investments for MSF III.  Grassi also failed to amend its audit plan 
and execution in light of the audit evidence that was either insufficient or contradicted 
management’s assertions in the Funds’ financial statements.  As a result, Grassi failed to 
properly plan its 2010 audit of MSF III and its 2011 audits of MSF I, MSF II and MSF III. 

                Failure to Properly Supervise the Engagement Team (AU § 311) 

       62.    GAAS requires the auditor with final responsibility for the audit to properly 
supervise the audit assistants, including firm personnel other the engagement partner.  (AU § 
311.01).  Supervision involves directing the efforts of assistants who are involved in 
accomplishing the objectives of the audit and determining whether those objectives were 
accomplished.  (AU § 311.28).  The auditor with final responsibility for the audit should 
communicate with members of the audit team regarding the susceptibility of the entity's financial 
statements to material misstatement due to error or fraud, with special emphasis on fraud. (AU § 
311.29).  The auditor with final responsibility for the audit should direct assistants to bring to his 
or her attention accounting and auditing issues raised during the audit that the assistant believes 
are of significance to the financial statements or auditor's report so the auditor with final 
responsibility may assess their significance.  (AU § 311.30).  The work performed by each 
assistant, including the audit documentation, should be reviewed to determine whether it was 
adequately performed and documented and to evaluate the results, relative to the conclusions to 
be presented in the auditor's report.  (AU § 311.31). 
        
       63.    As a result of Grassi’s conduct described above, including among other things the 
fact that Grassi permitted audit reports to be issued even though the engagement partner had not, 
as part of his engagement partner responsibilities, adequately reviewed the audit team’s work to 
determine whether it had been sufficiently performed and documented, Grassi failed to properly 
supervise the engagement team in its 2010 audit of MSF III and its 2011 audits of MSF I, MSF 
II, MSF III and CPAI. 

              Failure to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence (AU § 326) 

       64.    GAAS requires auditors to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide 
a reasonable basis for an opinion with respect to the financial statements under audit.  (AU §§ 
326.01, 326.06).  To obtain reasonable assurance, the auditor must not be satisfied with audit 
evidence that is less than persuasive. (AU § 326.13).  In general, audit evidence is more reliable 
when it is obtained from knowledgeable independent sources outside the entity, when it is 
obtained directly by the auditor, or when it exists in documentary form.  (AU § 326.08).  When 
audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with that obtained from another, the 

                                               17 
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                                                                                                  

auditor should determine what additional audit procedures are necessary to resolve the 
inconsistency. (AU § 326.11).     
        
       65.    Among other things, Grassi failed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence 
of purported investments by ClearPath, and of the value of the Receivable Partners loans, and 
failed to consider discrepancies between the audit evidence obtained and ClearPath’s records of 
value concerning the OPCO and other investments.  As a result, Grassi failed to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence for its 2010 audit of MSF III and its 2011 audits of MSF I, MSF II, 
MSF III and CPAI. 

                      Failure to Properly Document the Audit (AU § 339) 

       66.    GAAS requires auditors to prepare audit documentation in connection with each 
engagement in sufficient detail to provide a clear understanding of the work performed 
(including the nature, timing, extent, and results of audit procedures performed), the audit 
evidence obtained and its source, and the conclusions reached. (AU § 339.03).  The auditor 
should prepare audit documentation that enables an experienced auditor, having no previous 
connection to the audit, to understand, among others, the results of the audit procedures 
performed and the audit evidence obtained, and the conclusions reached on significant matters.  
(AU § 339.10).  The auditor should document significant findings or issues, actions taken to 
address them (including any additional evidence obtained), and the basis for the final conclusions 
reached. Judging the significance of a finding or issue requires an objective analysis of the facts 
and circumstances.  Significant findings or issues include, but are not limited to, circumstances 
that cause the auditor significant difficulty in applying auditing procedures the auditor 
considered necessary, for example, the lack of responsiveness to confirmation or information 
requests, or the lack of original documents.  (AU § 339.14).  The auditor should document 
discussions of significant findings or issues with management and others on a timely basis, 
including responses. The audit documentation should include documentation of the significant 
findings or issues discussed, and when and with whom the discussions took place. (AU § 
339.15).  If the auditor has identified information that contradicts or is inconsistent with the 
auditor's final conclusions regarding a significant finding or issue, the auditor should document 
how the auditor addressed the contradiction or inconsistency in forming the conclusion.  (AU § 
339.16).  In documenting the nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures performed, the 
auditor should record who performed the audit work and the date such work was completed, and 
who reviewed specific audit documentation and the date of such review.  (AU § 339.18).   
              
       67.    Among other things, Grassi failed to adequately document the audit procedures 
performed and evidence obtained to audit the valuation and existence of certain investments as of 
the date the audit reports were issued.  Grassi did not document such audit procedures for the 
OPCO, Feingold O’Keeffe and Receivable Partners investments.  Grassi also failed to adequately 
document discussions of certain significant findings or issues, including subsequent events, with 
management and its conclusions on the issues in accordance with the auditing standards 
referenced above.  As a result of Grassi’s conduct described above, Grassi failed to prepare 
sufficient audit documentation in support of its 2010 audit of MSF III and its 2011 audits of MSF 
I, MSF II, MSF III and CPAI. 

                                               18 
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                                                                             

                             Grassi’s Improper Professional Conduct –  
                   Specific Violations of Fieldwork and Reporting Standards 
                                                       
                                     Subsequent Events (AU § 560) 

        68.     Subsequent events are events or transactions that occur after the balance-sheet 
date, but before the issuance of the financial statements that have a material effect on the 
financial statements and therefore require adjustment or disclosure in the statements.  (AU § 
                  12
560.01).  Type 2     subsequent events provide evidence with respect to conditions that did not 
exist at the date of the balance sheet being reported on but arose after that date.  These events 
should not result in adjustment of the financial state   ments.  Some of these events, however, may 
be of such a nature that disclosure of them is required to keep the financial statements from being 
misleading.  (AU §560.05).     Occasionally, a  Type 2   subsequent event has such a material impact 
on the entity that the auditor may wish to include in his report an explanatory paragraph directing 
the reader's attention to the event and its effects.  (AU § 560.09).     
         
        69.     GAAS requires auditors to perform procedures with respect to the period after the 
balance-sheet date for the purpose of ascertaining the occurrence of subsequent events that may 
require adjustment or disclosure essential to a fair presentation of the financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These procedures should be 
performed at or near the date of the auditor's report.  (AU § 560.12).    
         
        70.     Grassi’s audit program to address the GAAS requirements for subsequent events 
included the following procedures: 
                a.  Read the accounting records subsequent to year end to the date of the auditor's 
                    report for evidence of significant transactions related to the financial 
                    statements under audit. 
                b.  Read any financial statements or significant financial reports that have been 
                    prepared since the balance-sheet date. 
                c.  Inquire of management about the existence of material subsequent events.  
                    Inquire about the status of items unresolved at the balance-sheet date. 
                     
        71.     The 2010 audit report for MSF III was issued in June 2012 – 18 months after the 
balance sheet date.  The 2011 audit reports for MSF I, MSF II, MSF III and CPAI were issued in 
January 2013 – 13 months after the balance sheet dates.  Grassi had the obligation under GAAS 
to review subsequent events through a period “at or near the date of the auditor’s report.”  Grassi 
auditors testified generally that auditors should have looked at the periodic statements for the 
portfolio investments up to the date of the audit report as part of the subsequent events review.  
Instead, in the ClearPath audits and in general practice, Grassi simply relied upon management’s 
representations about subsequent events and did not request or review accounting records 
through the date of the audit report. 

                                                           
12 
 Type 1 subsequent events are events that provide additional evidence with respect to conditions that existed at the 
date of the balance sheet and affect the estimates inherent in the process of preparing financial statements.  The 
financial statements should be adjusted for any changes in estimates resulting from the use of such evidence. (AU § 
560.03). 

                                                    19 
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                                                  

      
     72.   Several of the material accounting errors outlined in the preceding sections could 
have been further highlighted through a GAAS-compliant subsequent events review, but Grassi 
failed to execute its own audit plan.  For example: 
      
  OPCO (MSF I, 2011) Grassi did not request or review any OPCO brokerage 
                     statements after December 31, 2011.  If Grassi had reviewed 
                     OPCO statements as early as April 2012, Grassi would have 
                     seen the effect of OPCO’s margin call.  Statements on or after 
                     
                     
                     
  Feingold O’Keeffe (MSF  Grassi did not request or review Feingold O’Keeffe 
                     statements of partner’s capital accounts after December 31, 
                     2011.  Feingold O’Keeffe’s December 31, 2012 statements 
                     
                       
                     Grassi followed up on the “pledge agreement” referred to on 
                     the Feingold O’Keeffe confirmation, Grassi 
                     discovered ClearPath’s borrowing against the credit line 
                     
                                                        
                     
                      
                     Partners’ default on interest payments in 2012 should have 
                     
                      
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     
                      
            
     73.   As a result of Grassi’s conduct described above, Grassi failed to comply with 
GAAS requirements for subsequent events testing in its 2010 audit of MSF III and its 2011 
audits of MSF I, MSF II, MSF III and CPAI. 

                   The Confirmation Process (AU § 330) 

     74.   Confirmation is undertaken to obtain evidence from third parties about financial 
statement assertions made by management. AU § 326 – Audit Evidence, states that, in general, it 
is presumed that “audit evidence is more reliable when it is obtained from knowledgeable 
independent sources outside the entity.”  (AU § 330.06).  The auditor should evaluate the 
combined audit evidence provided by the confirmations and the alternative procedures to 
determine whether sufficient audit evidence has been obtained about all the applicable financial 

                               20 
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

                                                                                                  

statement assertions.  In performing that evaluation, the auditor should consider (a) the reliability 
of the confirmations and alternative procedures; (b) the nature of any exceptions, including the 
implications, both quantitative and qualitative, of those exceptions; (c) the audit evidence 
provided by other procedures; and (d) whether additional audit evidence is needed.  If the 
combined audit evidence provided by the confirmations, alternative procedures, and other 
procedures is not sufficient, the auditor should request additional confirmations or extend other 
tests, such as tests of details or analytical procedures.  (AU § 330.33).   
        
       75.    As described above, among other things, Grassi failed to obtain confirmation or 
other audit evidence of the purported investments by ClearPath, and also, failed to adequately 
evaluate the OPCO confirmation and obtain additional audit evidence based on that 
confirmation.  As a result, Grassi failed to comply with GAAS requirements for the confirmation 
process in its 2011 audits of MSF I and CPAI. 

                    Auditing Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures and 
                        Using the Work of a Specialist (AU §§ 328, 336) 

       76.    GAAS requires auditors to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide 
reasonable assurance that fair value measurements and disclosures are in conformity with 
GAAP.  (AU § 328.03).  Fair value measurements for which observable market prices are not 
available are inherently imprecise.  That is because, among other things, those fair value 
measurements may be based on assumptions about future conditions, transactions, or events 
whose outcome is uncertain and will therefore be subject to change over time.  The auditor's 
consideration of such assumptions is based on information available to the auditor at the time of 
the audit.  (AU § 328.05).   
              
       77.    When there are no observable market prices and the entity estimates fair value 
using a valuation method, the auditor should evaluate whether the entity's method of 
measurement is appropriate in the circumstances.  That evaluation requires the use of 
professional judgment.  It also involves obtaining an understanding of management's rationale 
for selecting a particular method by discussing with management its reasons for selecting the 
valuation method. The auditor considers whether: 
               a.  Management has sufficiently evaluated and appropriately applied the criteria, 
                  if any, provided by GAAP to support the selected method. 
               b.  The valuation method is appropriate in the circumstances given the nature of 
                  the item being valued. 
               c.  The valuation method is appropriate in relation to the business, industry, and 
                  environment in which the entity operates. (AU § 328.18).   
              
       78.    Based on the auditor's assessment of the risk of material misstatement, the auditor 
should test the entity's fair value measurements and disclosures by performing audit procedures 
that may involve (a) testing management's significant assumptions, the valuation model, and the 
underlying data, (b) developing independent fair value estimates for corroborative purposes, or 
(c) reviewing subsequent events and transactions. (AU § 328.23).   
              
       79.    Collateral often is assigned for certain types of investments in debt instruments 
that either are required to be measured at fair value or are evaluated for possible impairment.  If 

                                               21 
 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

                                                                                                   

the collateral is an important factor in measuring the fair value of the investment or evaluating its 
carrying amount, the auditor obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the 
existence, value, rights, and access to or transferability of such collateral, including consideration 
of whether all appropriate liens have been filed, and considers whether appropriate disclosures 
about the collateral have been made.  (AU § 328.25).   
        
       80.    The auditor's understanding of the reliability of the process used by management 
to determine fair value is an important element in support of the resulting amounts and therefore 
affects the nature, timing, and extent of audit procedures.  When testing the entity's fair value 
measurements and disclosures, the auditor evaluates whether: 
               a.  Management's assumptions are reasonable and reflect, or are not inconsistent 
                  with, market information, 
               b.  The fair value measurement was determined using an appropriate model, if 
                  applicable. 
               c.  Management used relevant information that was reasonably available at the 
                  time.  (AU § 328.26).   
        
       81.    During the audit … an auditor may encounter complex or subjective matters 
potentially material to the financial statements. Such matters may require special skill or 
knowledge and in the auditor's judgment require using the work of a specialist to obtain 
appropriate audit evidence.  (AU § 336.06).   The auditor should obtain an understanding of the 
nature of the work performed or to be performed by the specialist.  This understanding should 
cover the following, among others: 
               a.  The objectives and scope of the specialist's work 
               b.  The specialist's relationship to the client 
               c.  The methods or assumptions used 
               d.  A comparison of the methods or assumptions used with those used in the 
                  preceding period 
               e.  The appropriateness of using the specialist's work for the intended purpose 
               f.  The form and content of the specialist’s findings. (AU § 336.09).     
                           
       82.    If the auditor determines that the specialist’s findings support the related 
assertions in the financial statements, he or she reasonably may conclude that sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence has been obtained.  (AU § 336.13).  
        
       83.    As outlined in the section above regarding the fair value of the Receivable 
Partners loans in MSF II and MSF III, ClearPath engaged a valuation firm to assist management 
in the year-end valuation of the loans made to Receivable Partners which were all assets valued 
using Level 3 inputs.  There was no documentation provided by the valuation firm that would 
allow Grassi to obtain an understanding of the nature of the work performed by the valuation 
firm and its effect on the further audit procedures, as required by AU § 336.09.  Furthermore, 
Grassi audit documentation noted that the valuation firm did not perform sufficient work that 
would allow Grassi to use the valuation firm’s findings as audit evidence.  Instead, Grassi 
accepted the ClearPath-prepared valuation reports without evaluating the appropriateness of 
management’s valuation method and model, evaluating the reasonableness of management’s 

                                               22 
 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

                                                                                                   

assumptions in the model, or testing the reliability of the information used in the preparation of 
the model.  
        
       84.    Further, AU § 328 provides guidance for evaluating fair value assertions of 
secured debt instruments similar to the Receivable Partners loans.  Grassi failed to design or 
execute audit procedures to properly test the existence, valuation and transferability of the 
underlying collateral. 
        
       85.    As a result of Grassi’s conduct described above, Grassi failed to comply with 
GAAS requirements in connection with testing management’s fair value assertions in its 2011 
audits of MSF II and MSF III.   

               Consideration of Fraud in a Financial Statement Audit (AU § 316) 

       86.    GAAS requires auditors to design procedures to test the appropriateness of 
journal entries recorded in the general ledger and other adjustments (for example, entries posted 
directly to financial statement drafts) made in the preparation of the financial statements.  More 
specifically, the auditor should:   
               a.  Obtain an understanding of the entity's financial reporting process and the 
                  controls over journal entries and other adjustments. 
               b.  Identify and select journal entries and other adjustments for testing. 
               c.  Determine the timing of the testing.   
               d.  Inquire of individuals involved in the financial reporting process about 
                  inappropriate or unusual activity relating to the processing of journal entries 
                  and other adjustments.  (AU § 316.58).   
                   
       87.    As noted in the Managed Futures section above, ClearPath and Churchville 
caused a series of journal entries to be posted to the MSF III general ledger during 2011 which 
created and subsequently increased ClearPath’s equity position in the DD1 series with no 
contemporaneous cash contribution by ClearPath to MSF III.  These journal entries were manual, 
non-standard, round dollar and material entries representing unusual transactions that affected a 
related party account – exactly the types of journal entries that should have been flagged for 
review in AU § 316 journal entry testing.   
        
       88.    The audit workpapers for each of the Grassi audits included an identical memo 
co-authored by the Grassi manager and junior auditor purportedly documenting Grassi’s 
procedures related to journal entry testing performed in satisfaction of GAAS requirements under 
AU § 316.  Other than the title of each three-page memo which was changed to reflect the 
specific Fund and the applicable year, the memo does not include references specific to 
ClearPath or its personnel, the fund administrator or its personnel, the accounting system used, 
the general ledger or journal entry reports requested or reviewed, the entries selected for testing, 
or the results of Grassi’s testing.  In fact, there is no evidence in Grassi’s workpapers or 
otherwise that Grassi ever requested or reviewed the Funds’ general ledgers or specific journal 
entries.  The memo claimed that Grassi reviewed the journal entries and focused on entries that 
were “nonstandard,” “large and unusual,” “processed outside the normal course of business,” and 
“[contained] round numbers or a consistent ending number,” but there is no evidence that Grassi 
conducted that review.  At the same time, all of the journal entries resulting in ClearPath’s 

                                               23 
 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

                                                                                                   

unsupported allocation of equity in the DD1 series fit the testing criteria outlined in Grassi’s 
memo, but those entries evidently were not subjected to testing.   
        
       89.    The Grassi journal entry testing memo includes the following unsupported 
statements: 
               a.  There were no instances of non-standard journal entries other than topside or 
                  adjusting journal entries, 
               b.  Grassi scanned the general ledger and noted no activity other than normal 
                  purchases and sales of investments and or expenses paid,  
               c.  Entries appear to be for transactions in connection to the ordinary course of 
                  business, i.e.: investment purchases, income/expense accruals.   
               d.  There were no material unusual journal entries found, and  
               e.  Based upon procedures performed above, Grassi auditor was satisfied that all 
                  material journal entries described above were recorded properly. 
        
       90.    During the course of the audit, the auditor may become aware of significant 
transactions that are outside the normal course of business for the entity, or that otherwise appear 
to be unusual given the auditor's understanding of the entity and its environment. The auditor 
should gain an understanding of the business rationale for such transactions and whether that 
rationale (or the lack thereof) suggests that the transactions may have been entered into to engage 
in fraudulent financial reporting or conceal misappropriation of assets. (AU § 316.66).   
            
       91.    In understanding the business rationale for the transactions, the auditor should 
consider, among others: 
         Whether the form of such transactions is overly complex (for example, involves 
           multiple entities within a consolidated group or unrelated third parties). 
         Whether management is placing more emphasis on the need for a particular 
           accounting treatment than on the underlying economics of the transaction.  (AU § 
           316.67).   
            
       92.    In addition to the required journal entry testing, GAAS requires auditors to 
consider conditions identified during fieldwork that change or support a judgment regarding the 
assessment of the risks of material misstatement due to fraud, including, among others: 
               a.  Discrepancies in the accounting records, including unsupported or 
                  unauthorized balances or transactions 
               b.  Conflicting or missing audit evidence, including missing documents, 
                  significant unexplained items on reconciliations, or unusual discrepancies 
                  between the entity’s records and confirmation replies 
               c.  Problematic or unusual relationships between the auditor and management, 
                  including denial of access to records, facilities, certain employees, customers, 
                  vendors, or others from whom audit evidence might be sought. (AU § 316.68).   
        
       93.    Grassi failed to update its risk assessment and audit plans to address fraud 
indicators including, but not limited to: (a) undisclosed accounts, (b) prohibited and undisclosed 
borrowing against Fund assets, (c) unusual discrepancies in confirmation responses, (d) 

                                               24 
 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

                                                                                                        

unsupported and unusual journal entries, and (e) the scope limitation related to Grassi’s request 
to contact Receivable Partners.    
        
       94.    As a result of Grassi’s conduct described above, Grassi failed to properly consider 
fraud risk factors in violation of GAAS in its 2010 audit of MSF III and its 2011 audits of MSF I, 
MSF II, MSF III and CPAI. 

                                     Related Parties (AU § 334) 

       95.    GAAS specifies that auditors should be aware of the possible existence of 
material related party transactions that could affect the financial statements and of common 
ownership or management control relationships for which FASB ASC 850-10-50 requires 
           13
disclosure.     (AU § 334.04).  The auditor should place emphasis on testing material transactions 
with parties the auditor knows are related to the reporting entity.  (AU § 334.07).     
              
       96.    After identifying related party transactions, the auditor should apply the 
procedures the auditor considers necessary to obtain satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, 
and extent of these transactions and their effect on the financial statements.  The procedures 
should be directed toward obtaining and evaluating sufficient appropriate audit evidence and 
should extend beyond inquiry of management.  Procedures that should be considered include the 
following, among others: 
               a.  Obtain an understanding of the business purpose of the transaction. 
               b.  Examine pertinent documents. 

               c.  Test for reasonableness the compilation of amounts to be disclosed, or 
                   considered for disclosure, in the financial statements. 
               d.  Inspect or confirm and obtain satisfaction concerning the transferability and 
                   value of collateral. (AU § 334.09).   
                    
       97.    When necessary to fully understand a particular transaction, the following 
procedures, which might not otherwise be deemed necessary to comply with generally accepted 
auditing standards, should be considered, among others: 
               a.  Confirm transaction amount and terms, including guarantees and other 
                   significant data, with the other party or parties to the transaction. 
               b.  Inspect evidence in possession of the other party or parties to the transaction. 
               c.  Confirm or discuss significant information with intermediaries, such as banks, 
                   guarantors, agents, or attorneys, to obtain a better understanding of the 
                   transaction.  (AU § 334.10).   
                    
       98.    For each material related party transaction (or aggregation of similar transactions) 
or common ownership or management control relationship for which FASB ASC 850-10-50 
                    14
requires disclosure,   the auditor should consider whether he has obtained sufficient appropriate 

                                                           
13
  FASB ASC 850, Related Party Disclosures. 
14
  FASB ASC 850  -10-50 requires disclosure “of material related party transactions, other than compensation 
arrangements, expense allowances, and other similar items in the ordinary course of business.” 

                                                  25 
 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

                                                                     

audit evidence to understand the relationship of the parties and, for related party transactions, the 
effects of the transaction on the financial statements.  He should then evaluate all the information 
available to him concerning the related party transaction or control relationship and satisfy 
himself on the basis of his professional judgment that it is adequately disclosed in the financial 
statements.  (AU § 334.11). 
        
     99.   Grassi failed to examine, document and satisfy itself as to the adequate disclosure 
of material related party transactions that it knew, or should have known about, including: 
      
  OPCO (MSF I, 2011)  Even though Grassi learned of OPCO brokerage accounts that 
                      management did not disclose to auditors through third-party 
                      confirmation provided directly to the audit team, Grassi’s 
                         
                      brokerage accounts.  Further, Grassi’s workpapers did not 
                      
                      
                      
                      
  Feingold O’Keeffe (MSF  “pledged” notification 
                      statement received from Feingold O’Keeffe,  
                       the meaning of the “pledged” notification
                      Grassi’s workpapers did not reveal that the “pledge” 
                       
                      with the Feingold O’Keeffe assets as collateral  
                                          
                       unds’ 
                      
                                   
                      auditor’s evaluation of 
                      
                      
                      
                      


     100.  As a result of Grassi’s conduct described above, Grassi failed to comply with 
GAAS requirements for the testing and disclosure of related party transactions in its 2011 audits 
of MSF I, MSF III and CPAI. 

             Adequacy of Disclosure in Financial Statements (AU § 431) 

     101.  The presentation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles includes adequate disclosure of material matters.  These matters relate to 
the form, arrangement, and content of the financial statements and their appended notes, 
including, for example, the terminology used, the amount of detail given, the classification of 
items in the statements, and the bases of amounts set forth.  An independent auditor considers 

                                 26 
 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

                                                                                                        

whether a particular matter should be disclosed in light of the circumstances and facts of which 
he is aware at the time. (AU § 431.02).   
        
       102.   Grassi’s audit plan included the use of a disclosure checklist specifically designed 
for investment companies.  The disclosure checklist section for Notes Payable and Other Debt 
included the question, “Is information related to unused lines of credit, conditions of credit 
agreements, and long-term debt maturities disclosed in the notes to the financial statements?”  
The checklist indicated that this question was “not applicable” despite the fact Feingold 
O’Keeffe reported directly to Grassi as part of its audit confirmation response that the largest 
assets in the MSF I and CPAI Funds were pledged.  The checklist was prepared by the Grassi 
audit manager and reviewed by the engagement partner and the EQCR Reviewer.  The 2011 
audited financial statements for these Funds do not include a disclosure of the line of credit. 
        
       103.   As a result of Grassi’s conduct described above, Grassi failed to comply with 
GAAS requirements regarding the adequacy of disclosures in the 2011 audits of MSF I and 
CPAI. 

     Grassi’s Improper Professional Conduct – Violation of Quality Control Standards 
              
                          Quality Control Standards (AU § 161, QC § 10) 

       104.   GAAS requires accounting firms to adopt a system of quality control in 
conducting an audit practice.  (AU § 161.02).  The elements of quality control are identified in 
                                                        15
QC section 10 – A Firm's System of Quality Control.         A system of quality control consists of 
policies designed to provide the firm with reasonable assurance that the firm and its personnel 
comply with professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements and that 
reports issued by the firm are appropriate in the circumstances, and the procedures necessary to 
implement and monitor compliance with those policies.  (AU § 161.01 [f/n 1]).        
        
       105.   Grassi maintained a “Quality Control Document” which set forth the policies and 
procedures to be followed by the firm’s partners and employees in order to comply with the 
GAAS requirement to adopt a system of quality control.   
        
       106.   The GAAS quality control standards require firms to, among other things, 
establish policies and procedures designed to provide it with reasonable assurance that it has 
sufficient personnel with the competence, capabilities, and commitment to ethical principles 
necessary to perform engagements in accordance with professional standards and applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements and enable the firm to issue reports that are appropriate in the 
circumstances.  Further, the firm’s policies and procedures should provide that personnel 
selected for advancement have the qualifications necessary for fulfillment of the responsibilities 
that they will be called on to assume. (QC §§ 10.31-32) 
        

                                                           
15 
 References herein are to QC Section 10 as applicable to a CPA firm’s system of quality control for its accounting 
and auditing practice as of January 1, 2012.   

                                                  27 
 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

                                                                                                 

       107.   When assigning partners and staff to audit engagements, the quality control 
standards require the firm to establish policies and procedures requiring, among others, that the 
engagement partner has the appropriate competence, capabilities, and authority to perform the 
role.  Further, these policies and procedures should provide the firm with reasonable assurance 
that appropriate personnel are assigned to the engagement with the necessary competence and 
capabilities to perform engagements in accordance with professional standards and applicable 
legal and regulatory requirements and enable the firm to issue reports that are appropriate in the 
circumstances. (QC §§ 10.33-34) 
        
       108.   Quality control standards require audit firms to monitor compliance with their 
quality control policies and procedures and evaluate, communicate and remedy identified 
deficiencies in systems of quality control.   These monitoring standards require firms, among 
other things, to identify systemic, repetitive, or other significant deficiencies that require prompt 
corrective action.  Remedial actions may include disciplinary action against individuals that 
failed to comply with the policies and procedures of the firm.  Based on these monitoring 
controls, a firm may find that a report may be inappropriate or that procedures were omitted 
during the performance of the engagement.  Such policies and procedures should require the firm 
to determine what further action is appropriate to comply with relevant professional standards 
and legal and regulatory requirements, and consider whether to obtain legal advice. (QC §§ 
10.52-57). 
        
       109.   Grassi permitted the ClearPath engagement partner to sign for release of the 2011 
audit reports, even though the engagement partner had not properly reviewed the audit 
workpapers, and despite the fact that Grassi had learned that the engagement partner had 
previously circumvented firm policy for engagements other than ClearPath.  Grassi also failed to 
appropriately document that the audits were performed in accordance with GAAS, and instead 
permitted issuance of the reports by sending an email.  As a result, Grassi failed to comply with 
GAAS requirements regarding quality control standards in the 2011 audits of MSF I, MSF II, 
MSF III and CPAI. 

                                           FINDING 

       110.   Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Grassi engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Grassi’s conduct in the 2010 audit of MSF 
III and the 2011 audits of MSF I, MSF II, MSF III and CPAI involved repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards and 
indicating a lack of competence to practice before the Commission, and also satisfies the 
standard of highly unreasonable conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable professional 
standards in circumstances in which heightened scrutiny was warranted. 

                       GRASSI WAS A CAUSE OF VIOLATIONS OF 
                  SECTIONS 206(2) and 206(4) of the ADVISERS ACT and 
                               RULE 206(4)-8 THEREUNDER. 
                                                 
       111.   Section 206(2) of the Advisers Act prohibits any investment adviser from 
engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of business which operates as a fraud or deceit 

                                              28 
 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

                                                                                                  

upon any client or prospective client.  A violation of Section 206(2) may rest on a finding of 
negligence.  SEC v. Steadman, 967 F.2d 363, 643 n.5 (D.C. Cir. 1992) (citing SEC v. Capital 
Gains Research Bureau, Inc., 375 U.S. 180, 195 (1963)).  Proof of scienter is not required to 
establish a violation of Section 206(2).  Id. 
        
       112.   Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder make it 
unlawful for any investment adviser to a pooled vehicle to make any untrue statement of a 
material fact or to omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of 
the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, to any investor or prospective 
investor in the pooled investment vehicle, or to otherwise engage in any act, practice, or course 
of business that is fraudulent, deceptive or manipulative with respect to any investor or 
prospective investors in the pooled investment vehicle.  A violation of Section 206(4) of the 
Advisers Act and the rules thereunder does not require scienter.  Steadman, 967 F.2d at 647. 
        
       113.   As a result of the conduct described above, Grassi was a cause of ClearPath’s and 
Churchville’s violations of Sections 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 
thereunder.     

E.     UNDERTAKINGS 
 
       114.   Independent Consultant.  Grassi has undertaken to retain, within 30 days of the 
date of the issuance of this Order, the services of an Independent Consultant (“Consultant”) not 
unacceptable to the staff of the Commission.  Grassi shall provide to the Commission staff a 
copy of the engagement letter detailing the scope of the Consultant’s responsibilities.  The 
Consultant’s compensation and expenses shall be borne exclusively by Grassi.   
        
       115.   Grassi shall require the Consultant to conduct a review (the “Consultant Review”) 
of the following: 
        
               a.  Grassi’s quality controls, including policies and procedures for audits and 
                  reviews regarding the following (hereinafter referred to as “Grassi’s Policies”) 
                  to determine whether Grassi’s Policies are adequate and sufficient to provide 
                  reasonable assurance of compliance with all relevant Commission regulations 
                  and auditing standards and rules:  
        
                       i.  Professional conduct for general, planning and supervision standards, 
                          including: 
                   
                              1.  The exercise of due professional care and professional 
                                 skepticism;  
                           
                              2.  Properly planning an audit; 
                           
                              3.  Supervising the engagement team; 
                           

                                               29 
 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

                                                                                                   

                              4.  Obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence, including from 
                                  independent sources, directly by the auditor, and in 
                                  documentary form;  
                           
                              5.  Properly documenting an audit in sufficient detail to provide a 
                                  clear understanding of the work performed, including in 
                                  situations involving lack of responsiveness or original 
                                  documents from the client, documentation of findings or issues 
                                  with management, information that contradicts or is 
                                  inconsistent with final conclusions, and documentation of when 
                                  and with whom significant discussions occurred; and 
        
                              6.  Properly training the engagement team, in particular, in audits 
                                  of pooled investment vehicles as that term is defined by Rule 
                                  206(4)-8(b) promulgated under the Advisers Act (a “PIV”), 
                                  and in technical training related to such audit work; 
                   
                      ii.  Professional conduct for fieldwork and reporting, including; 
                           
                              1.  Subsequent events testing, including obtaining financial 
                                  reports, accounting records or other independent evidence 
                                  related to material subsequent events, aside from inquiry of 
                                  management; 
                           
                              2.  The confirmation process, including obtaining evidence from 
                                  third parties, evaluating that evidence and determining whether 
                                  further testing is required; 
                           
                              3.  Fair value measurements and disclosures, including use of 
                                  and/or reliance on the work of a specialist, and designing and 
                                  executing audit procedures to test existence, valuation and 
                                  transferability of collateral; 
                           
                              4.  Consideration of fraud in a financial statement audit, including 
                                  review and testing of journal entries; 
                           
                              5.  Identification, examination and evaluation of appropriate 
                                  disclosure of related party transactions; and 
                           
                              6.  Adequacy of disclosure in financial statements, including lines 
                                  of credit or other agreements that might affect the value of 
                                  investments;  
                   
                     iii.  Appropriate design and monitoring of compliance with quality control 
                          standards, including accurate review and sign-off on key workpapers, 
                          and objective review;  

                                               30 
 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                                                                                                   

                           
               b.  A sample, to be selected by the Consultant on a reasonable and defined basis 
                  not unacceptable to the SEC, of Grassi’s audits of financial statements of a 
                  PIV for periods ended on or after December 31, 2013. 
            
       116.   Grassi shall cooperate fully with the Consultant and shall provide reasonable 
access to firm personnel, information and records as the Consultant may reasonably request for 
the Consultant Review (including training materials), subject to Grassi’s right to withhold from 
disclosure any information or records protected by any applicable protection or privilege such as 
the attorney-client privilege or the attorney work product doctrine.  
        
           a.  At the end of the review, which in no event shall be more than six months after 
               the date of the issuance of this Order, Grassi shall require the Consultant to issue a 
               detailed written report (the “Consultant Report”) to Grassi, (a) summarizing the 
               Consultant Review, (b) making recommendations, where appropriate, reasonably 
               designed to ensure that Grassi’s Policies are adequate and sufficient to provide 
               reasonable assurance of compliance with all relevant Commission regulations and 
               auditing standards and rules, and (c) identifying any violations of auditing 
               standards found in the review of Grassi’s audits of financial statements of private 
               or registered fund clients required in Paragraph 115.b.  Grassi shall require the 
               Consultant to provide a copy of the Consultant Report to the Commission staff 
               when issued.  
        
           b.  Grassi shall adopt, as soon as practicable, all recommendations of the Consultant 
               in the Consultant Report; provided, however, that within thirty days of issuance of 
               the Consultant Report, Grassi may advise the Consultant in writing of any 
               recommendation that it considers to be unnecessary, outside the scope of this 
               Order, unduly burdensome, or impracticable.  Grassi need not adopt any such 
               recommendation at that time, but instead may propose in writing to the Consultant 
               and the Commission staff an alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve 
               the same objective or purpose.  Grassi and the Consultant shall engage in good-
               faith negotiations in an effort to reach agreement on any recommendations 
               objected to by Grassi.  In the event that the Consultant and Grassi are unable to 
               agree on an alternative proposal within 30 days, Grassi shall abide by the 
               determinations of the Consultant.  Grassi may also advise if it disagrees with the 
               Consultant’s identification of violations of audit standards found in the review of 
               Grassi’s audits of financial statements of private or registered PIV clients required 
               in Paragraph 115.b.  
        
           c.  Within nine months after the date of issuance of this Order, Grassi shall require 
               the Consultant to complete its review and submit a written final report (“Final 
               Report”) to Commission staff.  The Final Report shall describe the review made 
               of Grassi’s policies and procedures; set forth the conclusions reached and the 
               recommendations made by the Consultant, as well as any proposals made by 
               Grassi; describe how Grassi is implementing the Independent Consultant’s final 
               recommendations; certify that the Consultant agrees with Grassi’s adoption and 

                                               31 
 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

                                                                                                   

               implementation of the recommendations; and identify the violations of auditing 
               standards identified by the Consultant in its review of Grassi’s audits of financial 
               statements of private or registered PIV clients required in Paragraph 115.b.   
                
           d.  Grassi shall take all necessary and appropriate steps to adopt and implement all 
               recommendations contained in the Final Report. The date of completion of the 
               undertakings shall, in no event, be later than one year from the date of issuance of 
               this Order; 
        
           e.  Grassi shall require the Consultant to enter into an agreement providing that for 
               the period of the engagement and for a period of two years from completion of the 
               engagement, the Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, 
               attorney-client, auditing or other professional relationship with Grassi, or any of 
               its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in 
               their capacity as such.  The agreement will also provide that the Consultant will 
               require that any firm with which he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a 
               member, and any person engaged to assist the Consultant in the performance of 
               his or her duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the 
               Commission staff, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-client, 
               auditing or other professional relationship with Grassi, or any of its present or 
               former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or agents acting in their capacity 
               as such for the period of the engagement and for a period of two years after the 
               engagement.    
        
       117.   Grassi shall inform its audit professionals involved in financial services audits of 
the non-financial terms of this Order and undertakings, within 10 business days after entry of the 
Order. 
        
       118.   Training.  Within 15 months of the issuance of this order, Grassi shall require 
each audit professional serving audits of a PIV to complete successfully a minimum of 8 hours of 
audit-related training.  The audit-related training shall address any recommendations made by the 
Consultant regarding changes in Grassi’s Policies related to the auditing standards set forth 
above (the “Audit Training”).  
        
       119.   Within 16 months of the issuance of this order, Grassi shall certify, in writing, 
compliance with the undertakings set forth above.  The certification shall identify the 
undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be 
supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Commission’s staff may make 
reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and Grassi agrees to provide such 
evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to Robert B. Baker, 
Assistant Director, Asset Management Unit, Boston Regional Office, Securities and Exchange 
                                th
Commission, 33 Arch Street, 24  Floor, Boston, MA  02110, with a copy to the Office of the 
Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division. 
        
       120.   For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any of the procedural 
dates related to the undertakings.  Deadlines for procedural dates shall be counted in calendar 

                                                32 
 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

                                                                                                 

days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal holiday, the next business day shall 
be considered to be the last day.  
        
       121.   In determining whether to accept Grassi’s Offer, the Commission has considered 
these undertakings.  Grassi agrees that if the Division of Enforcement believes that Grassi has 
not satisfied these undertakings, it may petition the Commission to reopen this matter to 
determine whether additional sanctions are appropriate.  

                                              IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer.  
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
        
       A.     Grassi shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Sections 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 
thereunder. 
        
       B.     Grassi is censured.  
        
       C.     Grassi shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III.E. above.  
        
       D.     Grassi shall pay disgorgement of $130,000 and prejudgment interest of 
$11,510.41, for a total payment of $141,510.41, to Stephen F. Del Sesto, Esq., the court-
appointed receiver for ClearPath pursuant to Rule 1102 of the Commission Rules of Fair Fund 
and Disgorgement Plans [17 C.F.R. § 201.1102].  Payment shall be made in the following 
installments: $28,302.09 within 10 days of the issuance of the Order; $28,302.08 within 90 days 
of the issuance of the Order; $28,302.08 within 180 days of the issuance of the Order; 
$28,302.08 within 270 days of the issuance of the Order; and $28,302.08 within 360 days of the 
issuance of the Order.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 
Commission Rule 600.  Payment must be: (A) made by United States postal money order, 
certified check, bank cashier’s check or bank money order; (B) made payable to Stephen F. Del 
Sesto, Esq.; (C) hand-delivered or mailed to Stephen F. Del Sesto, Esq., Donoghue Barrett & 
Singal, P.C., One Cedar Street, Suite 300, Providence, RI 02903; and (D) submitted under cover 
letter that identifies Grassi as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these 
proceedings, and Securities and Exchange Commission v. ClearPath Wealth Management, LLC, 
Patrick Evans Churchville, as Defendants, and ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund I, L.P., 
ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund II, L.P., ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund III, L.P., and HCR 
Value Fund, L.P., as Relief Defendants, Civil Action No. 15-cv-00191, a copy of which cover 
letter and money order or check must be sent to Robert B. Baker, Assistant Director, Asset 
                                                                           th
Management Unit, Securities and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, 24  Floor, Boston, 
MA 02110. 
 
       E.     Grassi shall pay a civil money penalty of $260,000 to Stephen F. Del Sesto, Esq., 
the court-appointed receiver for ClearPath pursuant to Rule 1102 of the Commission Rules of 
Fair Fund and Disgorgement Plans [17 C.F.R. § 201.1102].  Payment shall be made in the 

                                              33 
 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

                                                                                                  

following installments: $52,000 within 10 days of the issuance of the Order; $52,000 within 90 
days of the issuance of the Order; $52,000 within 180 days of the issuance of the Order; $52,000 
within 270 days of the issuance of the Order; and $52,000 within 360 days of the issuance of the 
Order.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 
3717.  Payment must be: (A) made by United States postal money order, certified check, bank 
cashier’s check or bank money order; (B) made payable to Stephen F. Del Sesto, Esq.; (C) hand-
delivered or mailed to Stephen F. Del Sesto, Esq., Donoghue Barrett & Singal, P.C., One Cedar 
Street, Suite 300, Providence, RI 02903; and (D) submitted under cover letter that identifies 
Grassi as a Respondent in these proceedings, the file number of these proceedings, and Securities 
and Exchange Commission v. ClearPath Wealth Management, LLC, Patrick Evans Churchville, 
as Defendants, and ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund I, L.P., ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund II, 
L.P., ClearPath Multi-Strategy Fund III, L.P., and HCR Value Fund, L.P., as Relief Defendants, 
Civil Action No. 15-cv-00191, a copy of which cover letter and money order or check must be 
sent to Robert B. Baker, Assistant Director, Asset Management Unit, Securities and Exchange 
                                th
Commission, 33 Arch Street, 24  Floor, Boston, MA 02110. 
 
       F.     Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
Fund is created for disgorgement, prejudgment interest and penalties referenced in paragraphs D. 
and E. above.  Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall 
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such 
a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount 
of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be  
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
 
        
                                                           By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                           Brent J. Fields 
                                                           Secretary 
 

                                               34 
 
