---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 74039 / January 13, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3619 / January 13, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16333 
                                                
                                               :        
                                               :        
                                               :         
In the Matter of                               : 
                                               :       ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC  
                                               :       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
     JAMES T. CRANE, CPA,                      :       PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF   
                                               :       THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                               :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
     Respondent.                               :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                               :        
                                               :        
____________________________________ :                   
                                                        
 
                                                  I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against James 
T. Crane (“Respondent” or “Crane”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules of 
        1
Practice.    

                                                   
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in rele vant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any     court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
               1.      Crane, age 38, was a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the 
Commonwealth of Massachusetts, until his license expired on June 30, 2010.  He served as Chief 
Financial Officer of Subaye, Inc. (“Subaye”) from October 29, 2007 until March 10, 2011. 
        
               2.      Subaye was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation that purported to 
have its primary operations in the People’s Republic of China.  Subaye claimed to be a leading 
online services provider for small-to-medium sized businesses in China, but presently it is inactive.  
Subaye’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and was listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market 
under the ticker “SBAY” from March 15, 2010 until November 21, 2011.  The NASDAQ Stock 
Market filed a Form 25 (Notification of Removal from Listing and/or Registration under Section 
12(b) of the Exchange Act) on November 10, 2011, and Subaye no longer has a class of stock 
registered pursuant to the Exchange Act.   
 
               3.      On October 20, 2014, a final judgment was entered by consent, against 
Crane, permanently enjoining him from future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and Section 105(c)(7)(B) of the Sarbanes-
Oxley Act of 2002, and from aiding and abetting any violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 
13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, thereunder, in the civil action 
entitled Securities and Exchange Commission v. Subaye, Inc. and James T. Crane, Civil Action 
Number 1:13-cv-03114-PKC, in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New 
York.  Crane also was ordered to pay a civil penalty of $150,000 and was barred from serving as 
an officer or director of a public company for a period of ten years. 
 

                                                                                                                                                             
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

               4.      The Commission’s complaint contained allegations, which Crane neither 
 admitted nor denied, that, among other things, Crane engaged in a fraudulent scheme that 
 resulted in Subaye’s filing materially false and misleading financial statements in the company’s 
 annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2010, and a report on Form 
 8-K/A filed on January 26, 2011.  The Complaint alleged that Crane, as Subaye’s Chief 
 Financial Officer, engaged in a number of improper accounting practices, which included 
 circumventing or failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls, falsifying the 
 books, records and accounts of Subaye, providing false documents to Subaye’s independent 
 auditors, signing false management representation letters that were provided to the auditors, 
 making materially false or misleading statements to Subaye’s accountants, and signing a false 
 certification of Subaye’s Form 10-K for 2010.  In addition, the complaint alleged that, after 
 being barred from doing so by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (PCAOB) in 
 January 2011, Crane remained associated with Subaye, an issuer of U.S. registered stock, in a 
 financial management or accounting capacity. 
  
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Crane’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Crane is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After ten years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he/she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 

                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
