---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76401 / November 9, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3717 / November 9, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16952 
                                                 ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                  AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                  PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C  AND 21C 
                                                  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
       Larry D. Liberfarb, P.C.  ,                OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                 
 
 
                                                    
 
                                               I. 
 
        
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Larry D. 
                                                                   1
Liberfarb, P.C. (“Liberfarb” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities 

                                                  
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
              privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
              (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
              or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
              willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
              laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        

                                                 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
         2
Practice.  
 
                                                     II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this the Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.   
 
                                                     III. 
 
                                                                                          3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 
 
A.      SUMMARY 
 
           This matter concerns violations of the Commission’s auditor independence rules by 
Liberfarb.  Liberfarb audited the annual financial statements that were filed with the Commission 
for 20 broker-dealer audit clients for the fiscal years ending January 1, 2010 through September 30, 
2011.  For at least one audit of each of these broker-dealer audit clients, Liberfarb was not 
independent under auditor independence criteria established by the Commission and made 
                                                                                      4
applicable by Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) to audits of brokers and dealers.             As a result of this 

                                                   
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
                The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical 
                or improper professional conduct. 
 
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
        other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
4
        The provisions of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 referred to herein are those in effect during, and applicable to, the 
        relevant conduct.  On July 30, 2013, the Commission adopted certain amendments to Rule 17a-5. See Broker-
        Dealer Reports, SEC Exchange Act Release No. 34-70073 (July 30, 2013), 78 Fed. Reg. 51910 (Aug. 21, 
        2013).  Among other things, the amendments to Rule 17a-5 require that audits of brokers and dealers be 
        performed in accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board standards, effective for audits of 
        fiscal years ending on or after June 1, 2014.  The auditor independence requirement of Rule 2-01 of 
        Regulation S-X applied to broker-dealer audits both before and after the July 30, 2013 amendments.  At the 
 
                                                      2 
                                                        
---------------------Page 3---------------------

conduct, Liberfarb engaged in improper professional conduct, violated the auditor independence 
rules, and caused each of the broker-dealers’ failure to file an annual report audited by an 
independent accountant.  
 
B.     RESPONDENT 
 
       Respondent Liberfarb, a professional corporation, is an accounting and auditing firm 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  Liberfarb has one 
shareholder, Larry D. Liberfarb, and is located in Norwood, Massachusetts.  During the Relevant 
Period, Liberfarb also employed, on a part-time basis, a Certified Public Accountant who assisted 
the firm with audit engagements. 
 
C.     FACTS 
 
        1.     Lack of Independence 
 
       a.      During fiscal years ending January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2011 (the 
“Relevant Period”), Liberfarb served as the independent public accountant for 20 broker-dealer 
audit clients.  In connection with at least one audit performed for each of these broker-dealer audit 
clients during the Relevant Period, Liberfarb prepared the financial statements and/or notes to the 
financial statements that were filed with the Commission on Form X-17A-5.  
 
       b.      For example, Liberfarb audited the annual financial statements for Broker-Dealer 
A for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2011.  During the audit, Liberfarb was provided with 
financial documents generated by Broker-Dealer A, including a balance sheet and a profit and 
loss statement.  Liberfarb reviewed and tested these documents, and the financial data contained 
therein, as part of the audit.   
 
       c.      Liberfarb then utilized the information contained in these documents to create and 
revise a set of financial statements to be filed with the Commission.  In particular, using the prior 
year’s financial statements as a template, Liberfarb personnel working on Liberfarb computers 
typed and updated the new set of financial statements, including the notes to the financial 
statements.  Liberfarb then provided the set of financial statements it had prepared to Broker-
Dealer A’s management for approval. 
                                  
       d.      In November 2011, Broker-Dealer A filed with the Commission a Form X-17A-5 
Part III for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2011.  Included in that filing is an audit report 
signed by Liberfarb and stating, among other things, that Liberfarb’s audit of Broker-Dealer A 
was conducted “in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of 
America.”   
                                                          

                                                                                                                                                             
       time of the relevant conduct, prior to the amendments, that requirement was set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(3).  It is 
       now set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(1). 

                                                  3 
                                                   
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       e.      Liberfarb engaged in substantially similar conduct in connection with at least one 
audit for 19 additional broker-dealer clients during the Relevant Period.  
 
        2.     Violations  
 
       a.      Section 17(e)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that every registered broker or 
dealer “annually file with the Commission a balance sheet and income statement certified by an 
independent public accounting firm, or by a registered public accounting firm if the firm is 
required to be registered under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, prepared on a calendar or fiscal 
year basis, and such other financial statements (which shall, as the Commission specifies, be 
certified) and information concerning its financial condition as the Commission, by rule may 
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.” 

       b.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(e)(1)(i) states: “An audit shall be conducted by a public 
accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section herein, 
and he shall give an opinion covering the statements filed pursuant to paragraph (d) . . . .” 
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) further states that, for such audits, “[a]n accountant shall be 
independent in accordance with the provisions of Rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X.”   
 
       c.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(g) requires that “[t]he audit shall be made in accordance 
with generally accepted auditing standards” and Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) requires that “[t]he 
accountant’s report shall . . . [s]tate whether the audit was made in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards.”  Generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) require auditors to 
maintain strict independence from their audit clients; an auditor “must be free from any obligation 
to or interest in the client, its management or its owners.”  See Statement on Auditing Standard No. 
1, Section 220.03.  Accordingly, if an auditor’s report states that its audit was performed in 
accordance with GAAS when the auditor was not independent, then it has violated Exchange Act 
Rule 17a-5(i).  See In the Matter of Rosenberg Rich Baker Berman & Company and Brian Zucker, 
CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 69765 at p. 5 (June 14, 2013).   

       d.      Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X provides that an accountant is not independent 
if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the accountant provides 
prohibited non-audit services to an audit client.  Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X provides that 
prohibited non-audit services include bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting 
records or financial statements of the audit client, and defines such services as:   
        
       Any service, unless it is reasonable to conclude that the results of these services will 
       not be subject to audit procedures during an audit of the audit client’s financial 
       statements, including: 

           (A) Maintaining or preparing the audit client’s accounting records; 
                
           (B) Preparing the audit client’s financial statements that are filed 
               with the Commission or that form the basis of financial 
               statements filed with the Commission; or 

                                                 4 
                                                   
---------------------Page 5---------------------

            
           (C) Preparing or originating source data underlying the audit client’s 
               financial statements. 
 
       e.      Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X specifically prohibits an audit firm from 
preparing an audit client’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  In this context, 
preparing financial statements includes but is not limited to:  aggregating line items from internal 
books and records to the financial statements; changing line item descriptions; drafting or editing 
notes to the financial statements; and converting FOCUS reports or bookkeeping software program 
reports into financial statements.  With respect to the audit of Broker-Dealer A, and the additional 
audits in which Liberfarb engaged in substantially similar conduct, Liberfarb engaged in one or 
more of the above prohibited actions.  
        
       f.      As a result of Liberfarb’s conduct in preparing the financial statements, including 
the notes thereto, Liberfarb was not independent of its broker-dealer audit clients under the 
independence criteria established by Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X, which Exchange Act Rule 
17a-5 made applicable to the audits of broker-dealer financial statements.  As the Commission 
explained in adopting Rule 2-01(c)(4), providing such services for an audit client “impairs the 
auditor’s independence because the auditor will be placed in the position of auditing the firm’s 
work when auditing the client’s financial statements. . . .  In addition, keeping the books is a 
management function, the performance of which leads to an inappropriate mutuality of interests 
between the auditor and the audit client.”  Revision of the Commission’s Auditor Independence 
Requirements, Exchange Act Release No. 43602, at IV.D.4.b(i) (November 21, 2000).  See also 
Strengthening the Commission’s Requirements Regarding Auditor Independence, Exchange Act 
Release No. 47265 (“keeping the books is a management function, which also is 
prohibited”)(January 28, 2003). 
 
       g.      Liberfarb violated Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) by representing in its audit reports 
that it had performed the audits of the broker-dealers’ financial statements in accordance with 
GAAS when in fact, because of the independence impairment described above, the audits had not 
been performed in accordance with GAAS. 
 
       h.      Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5 require broker-dealers to file annual 
reports containing financial statements audited by independent public accountants.  No showing of 
scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1).  See In the Matter 
of Orlando Joseph Jett, Exchange Act Release No. 49366 at n.45 (March 5, 2004) (citing SEC v. 
Drexel Burham Lambert Inc., 837 F. Supp. 587, 610 (S.D.N.Y. 1993); Stead v. SEC, 444 F.2d 713, 
716-17 (10th Cir. 1971), cert denied, 404 U.S. 1059 (1972)).   

       i.      Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, a person is a “cause” of another’s primary 
violation if the person knew or should have known that his act or omission would contribute to the 
primary violation.  Negligence is sufficient to establish “causing” liability under Section 21C when 
a person is alleged to have caused a primary violation that does not require scienter.  In re KPMG 

                                                5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Peat Marwick, Exchange Act. Rel. No. 43862 (Jan. 19, 2001), aff’d, KPMG v. SEC, 289 F.3d 109 
(D.C. Cir. 2002).  

       j.      Liberfarb caused its broker-dealer audit clients to violate Exchange Act Section 
17(a) and Rule 17a-5.  Liberfarb, an audit firm registered with the PCAOB and operated by a 
Certified Public Accountant, knew or should have known that its conduct contributed to its audit 
clients’ violations of Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5.      

       k.      Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice allows the Commission to 
censure a person if it finds that such person has engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  
Exchange Act § 4C(a)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(ii).  Rule 102(e) defines improper professional conduct, 
in part, as:  “[a] single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of 
applicable professional standards in circumstances in which the registered public accounting firm 
or associated person knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted.”  Exchange Act 
§ 4C(b)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B). 

       l.      Questions regarding an auditor’s independence always warrant heightened scrutiny.  
See Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 57164, 57168 
(Oct. 26, 1998) (codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201).  The Commission has defined the “highly 
unreasonable” standard as: 
        
       an intermediate standard, higher than ordinary negligence but lower than the 
       traditional definition of recklessness used in cases brought under Section 10(b) of 
       the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.  The highly unreasonable 
       standard is an objective standard. The conduct at issue is measured by the degree of 
       the departure from professional standards and not the intent of the accountant.   
 
Id. at 57,167; see also In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-10933, SEC 
Initial Decision Release No. 249, at 60 (Apr. 16, 2004). 
 
       m.      Based on the conduct set forth above, Liberfarb engaged in highly unreasonable 
conduct that resulted in violations of applicable professional standards when it knew or should 
have known that heightened scrutiny was required. 
        
       3.      Findings 
 
       a.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Liberfarb engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Exchange Act Section 4C(a)(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       b.      Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Liberfarb committed violations 
of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) and caused 20 broker-dealers’ violations of Section 17(a) and Rule 
17a-5 promulgated thereunder.  
        
        

                                                6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       4.      Respondent’s Remedial Efforts 
 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondent. 
 
       5.      Undertakings 
                                                  
       Liberfarb undertakes: 
 
       a.       within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish written policies and 
procedures, or to revise and/or supplement existing written policies and procedures, for the purpose 
of providing Liberfarb with reasonable assurance of compliance with applicable independence 
requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X applicable to an SEC 
Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (defined to mean an engagement to provide a report – 
whether an audit report, an examination report, or a review report – required under Exchange Act 
Rule 17a-5(d)(1)(i)(C), as amended); 
        
       b.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish a policy of ensuring 
training, whether internal or external, on an annual or more frequent regular basis, concerning 
applicable independence requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-
X applicable to an SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement, of any Firm audit personnel who 
participate in any way in the planning or performing of any SEC Registered Broker-Dealer 
Engagement; 
        
       c.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order and before Liberfarb’s 
commencement of any SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (or, where Liberfarb by the 
date of this Order has already commenced but not completed such an engagement, before 
Liberfarb’s release of its report), to ensure training pursuant to the policy described in paragraph 
(5)(b) above has been provided on at least one occasion; 
        
       d.      to provide a copy of the Order –  
        
               (i)    within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to all audit personnel 
employed by, or associated with (as defined in PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(i)), Liberfarb as of the date 
of the Order; and 
        
               (ii)   within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to any client of Liberfarb 
as of the date of the Order for which Liberfarb has performed or has been engaged to perform an 
SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement; 
 
       e.      to certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth above in 
paragraphs 5(a) through 5(d)(ii).  The certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written 
evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to 
demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further 

                                                7 
                                                  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

evidence of compliance, and Respondent agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification and 
supporting material shall be submitted to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-
5553, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than one 
hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the Order.    
                       
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Liberfarb’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Liberfarb is hereby censured. 
        
       B.      Liberfarb shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       C.      Liberfarb shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section (III)(C)(5) 
above. 
 
       D.      Liberfarb shall pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $30,000 to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  Payment shall be made in the following installments:  $7,500 
within ten days of the entry of this Order; $7,500 within 120 days of the entry of this Order; $7,500 
within 240 days of the entry of this Order; and $7,500 within 360 days of the entry of this Order.  
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire 
outstanding balance of civil penalties, plus any additional interest pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717, 
shall be due and payable immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one 
of the following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
               (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                

                                                8 
                                                  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Larry D. Liberfarb, P.C. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Stephen L. 
Cohen, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., N.E., 
Washington, DC 20549-5553.   
 
       E.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                9 
                                                  
