---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA  
                                        Before the  
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 71174 / December 23, 2013 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3522 / December 23, 2013 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING  
File No. 3-13709 

                          
                          :  ORDER GRANTING APPLICATION FOR 
In the Matter of          :  REINSTATEMENT TO APPEAR AND PRACTICE 
                          :  BEFORE THE COMMISSION AS AN ACCOUNTANT 
Clinton Ronald Greenman,  :  RESPONSIBLE FOR THE PREPARATION OR 
CPA                       :  REVIEW OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS REQUIRED 
                          :  TO BE FILED WITH THE COMMISSION 

                          
        

       On December 10, 2009, Clinton Ronald Greenman, CPA (“Greenman”) was suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant as a result of settled public 
administrative proceedings instituted by the Commission against Greenman pursuant to Rule 
                                                1
102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice.   This order is issued in response to 
Greenman’s application for reinstatement to appear and practice before the Commission as an 
accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements required to be filed 
with the Commission. 

       The Commission found that Greenman had been permanently enjoined by a United States 
District Court from future violations of Section 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 and 
Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and 
from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
Exchange Act, and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder.  In a complaint filed on 
November 12, 2009, the Commission alleged that SafeNet, Inc. (“SafeNet”) engaged in a scheme 
to meet or exceed quarterly earnings per share targets through the use of improper accounting 
adjustments from the third quarter of 2004 through the second quarter of 2005.  Greenman 
served as SafeNet’s Corporate Controller from December 2002 through December 2004 and as 
the Director for the Americas Regional Operating Center from December 2004 through May 26, 
2005.  The complaint alleged that Greenman and others made, or caused others to make, certain 

                                                 
1
 See Accounting and Auditing Enforcement Release No. 3076 dated December 10, 2009.  Greenman was permitted, 
pursuant to the order, to apply for reinstatement after two years upon making certain showings. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                    

improper accounting adjustments in SafeNet’s books and records.  The complaint further alleged 
that, as a result of these inappropriate adjustments, SafeNet’s periodic reports, registration 
statements, and press releases contained materially misstated financial results and materially 
false and misleading information concerning SafeNet’s financial condition. 
 
       In his capacity as a preparer or reviewer, or as a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of financial statements of a public company to be filed with the Commission, Greenman 
attests that he will undertake to have his work reviewed by the independent audit committee of 
any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the Commission, while 
practicing before the Commission in this capacity.  Greenman is not, at this time, seeking to 
appear or practice before the Commission as an independent accountant.  If he should wish to 
resume appearing and practicing before the Commission as an independent accountant, he will 
be required to submit an application to the Commission showing that he has complied and will 
comply with the terms of the original suspension order in this regard.  Therefore, Greenman’s 
suspension from practice before the Commission as an independent accountant continues in 
effect until the Commission determines that a sufficient showing has been made in this regard in 
accordance with the terms of the original suspension order. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(5) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice governs applications for 
reinstatement, and provides that the Commission may reinstate the privilege to appear and 
                                                          2
practice before the Commission “for good cause shown.”   This “good cause” determination is 
necessarily highly fact specific. 
 
       On the basis of information supplied, representations made, and undertakings agreed to 
by Greenman, it appears that he has complied with the terms of the December 10, 2009 order 
suspending him from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant, that no 
information has come to the attention of the Commission relating to his character, integrity, 
professional conduct or qualifications to practice before the Commission that would be a basis 
for adverse action against him pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 
and that Greenman, by undertaking to have his work reviewed by the independent audit 
committee of any company for which he works, or in some other manner acceptable to the 
Commission, in his practice before the Commission as a preparer or reviewer of financial 
statements required to be filed with the Commission, has shown good cause for reinstatement.   
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
                                                 
2
 Rule 102(e)(5)(i) provides: 
 
“An application for reinstatement of a person permanently suspended or disqualified under paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) 
of this section may be made at any time, and the applicant may, in the Commission’s discretion, be afforded a 
hearing; however, the suspension or disqualification shall continue unless and until the applicant has been reinstated 
by the Commission for good cause shown.”  17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(5)(i). 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                                                                                

       Therefore, it is accordingly, 
 
       ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(5)(i) of the Commission's Rules of Practice that 
Clinton Ronald Greenman, CPA is hereby reinstated to appear and practice before the 
Commission as an accountant responsible for the preparation or review of financial statements 
required to be filed with the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
                                             
                                             
                                            Elizabeth M. Murphy  
                                            Secretary  

                                               3 
