---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                   UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                              Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 77231 / February 25, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3748 / February 25, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17134 
 
                                                      
In the Matter of                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS AND 
  TIMOTHY QUINTANILLA , CPA.,                       IMPOSING TEMPORARY SUSPENSION 
                                                    PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e)(3) OF THE 
     Respondent.                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE
                                                                   

                                                                          
                                                   I.  
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public  interest  that  public  administrative  proceedings  be,  and  hereby  are,  instituted  pursuant  to 
               1
Rule 102(e)(3)   of the Commission’s Rules of Practice against Timothy Quintanilla (“Respondent” 
or “Quintanilla”).    
 
                                                   II. 
 
        The Commission  finds that: 
         
        A.      RESPONDENT 
 
                1.      Timothy  Quintanilla, age 47, is and has been a certified public accountant 
(“CPA”) licensed by the California Board of Accountancy.  From at least August 2006 through 
December 2009, Quintanilla was a partner at Mendoza Berger & Co. LLP, an accounting firm. In 

                                               
1
        Rule 102(e)(3)(i)  provides,  in relevant part, that: 
 
        The  Commission,  with  due  regard  to  the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may,  by  order,  .  .  .  suspend  from  appearing  or practicing  before  it  any  attorney, accountant, 
engineer, or other professional or expert   who has been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any 
court  of  competent  jurisdiction,  by  reason  of  his  or her misconduct in an action brou ght by the 
Commission,  from  violating  or  aiding  and  abetting  the  violation  of  any  provision  of  the Federal 
securities laws or of the rules and regulations  thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

December 2009, Quintanilla left to open Q Accountancy.   Quintanilla was the engagement partner 
on Mendoza Berger’s audits of the 2006, 2007 and 2008 financial statements for Electronic Game 
Card, Inc. (“EGMI”), a company that purported to be a seller of credit-card sized electronic games 
and  that  had  common  stock  registered  with  the  Commission  pursuant  to  Section  12(g)  of  the 
Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) during the relevant period.   Quintanilla is a 
resident of Laguna Niguel, California. 
   
       B.      CIVIL INJUNCTION 
 
               2.      On December 4, 2015, the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of 
New York entered a final judgment on consent against Quintanilla which: (a) permanently enjoins 
him  from  future  violations,  direct  or  indirect,  of  Section  17(a)  of  the  Securities  Act  of  1933 
(“Securities Act”), Sections 10(b), 10A(a)(1), and 10A(b)(1) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 
thereunder;  and  (b)  orders  him  to  pay  a  $100,000  civil  penalty.   Securities  and  Exchange 
Commission  v. Cole et al., Civil  Action Number 12-CV-8167 (S.D.N.Y. RJS).   
                
               3.      The   Commission’s  complaint,   filed   in   November   2012,   alleged   that 
Quintanilla,  as the engagement partner for EGMI, violated the securities laws by authorizing the 
issuance of unqualified opinions for the years 2006 through 2008 by the accounting firm Mendoza 
Berger.   The  Complaint  alleged  that  in  Mendoza  Berger’s  audit  reports,  Quintanilla  knowingly 
misrepresented that it had conducted audits of EGMI’s financial statements “in accordance with 
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States)” (“PCAOB”) 
and  that  those  statements  “present[ed]  fairly,  in  all  material  respects,  the  financial  position” of 
EGMI.   
                
               4.      The Commission’s complaint further alleged that in the course of its audit 
work,  Quintanilla  and  the audit team he supervised failed to properly investigate a series of red 
flags,  any  number  of  which,  if appropriately pursued, would have quickly uncovered large-scale 
fraud  in  EGMI’s  financial  statements.   Other  evidence  indicated  that  Mendoza  Berger  simply 
failed to audit significant  portions of EGMI’s balance sheet.   
                
               5.      The Commission’s complaint further alleged that to conceal those failures, 
Mendoza Berger employees, under Quintanilla’s supervision, created and backdated documents for 
the EGMI audit file shortly before an inspection by the PCAOB in September and October 2009. 
                                                          
                                               III. 
        
       Based upon the foregoing, the Commission finds that a court of competent jurisdiction has 
permanently enjoined Quintanilla from violating the Federal securities laws within the meaning of 
Rule  102(e)(3)(i)(A)  of  the  Commission’s  Rules  of  Practice.   In  view  of  these  findings,  the 
Commission   deems   it   appropriate   and   in  the  public  interest  that  Quintanilla  be  temporarily 
suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission. 
   
       IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Quintanilla be, and hereby is, temporarily suspended from 
appearing or practicing before the Commission.  This Order shall be effective upon service on the 
Respondent. 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Quintanilla may within thirty days after service of this 
Order  file  a  petition  with  the  Commission  to  lift  the temporary suspension.   If the Commission 
within  thirty  days  after  service  of  the  Order  receives  no  petition,  the  suspension  shall become 
permanent pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(ii). 
  
        If a petition is received within thirty days after service of this Order, the Commission shall, 
within  thirty  days  after  the  filing  of  the  petition,  either lift the temporary suspension, or set the 
matter down for hearing at a time and place to be designated by the Commission, or both.  If a 
hearing  is  ordered,  following  the  hearing,  the  Commission  may  lift  the  suspension,  censure  the 
petitioner,  or  disqualify  the  petitioner  from  appearing or practicing before the Commission for a 
period of time, or permanently, pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(iii). 
 
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondent as provided for in the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                       Brent J. Fields 
                                                       Secretary 
 
  
 
 

                                                  3  
