---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73768 / December 8, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3603 / December 8, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16299 
 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                     AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                     PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
                                                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
       BKD, LLP ,                                    OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondent.                                        
                                                                                                     
                                                                            
 
 
                                                
                                                    
                                                  I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against BKD, LLP 
                                                    1
(“Respondent” or “BKD”) pursuant to Sections 4C  and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 
                                                                                        2
1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
                                                    

                                                           
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
               (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
               or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
               laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The C ommission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical 
               or improper professional conduct. 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                    II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.  
                                                      
                                                    III. 
 
                                                                                        3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.      SUMMARY 

        This matter concerns violations of the Commission’s auditor independence rules by BKD.  
BKD audited the annual financial statements that were filed with the Commission for 21 broker-
dealer audit clients for the fiscal years 2010, 2011, and/or 2012.  For at least one audit of nine of 
these broker-dealer audit clients, BKD was not independent under auditor independence criteria 
established by the Commission and made applicable by Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) to audits 
                         4
of brokers and dealers.      As a result of this conduct, BKD engaged in improper professional 
conduct, violated the auditor independence rule    s, and caused each of the broker  -dealers’ failure to 
file an annual report audited by an independent accountant. 

 B.     RESPONDENT 

        Respondent BKD, a limited liability partnership, is an accounting and auditing firm 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  BKD has 245 
partners and roughly 1,200 additional professional staff located in 34 offices in 15 states, with its 
principal office in the state of Missouri.  

                                                           
3
        The findings are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
4
        The provisions of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 referred to herein are those in effect during, and applicable to, 
the relevant conduct.  On July 30, 2013, the Commission adopted certain amendments to Rule 17a-5. See Broker-
Dealer Reports, SEC Exchange Act Release No. 34-70073 (July 30, 2013), 78 Fed. Reg. 51910 (Aug. 21, 2013).  
Among other things, the amendments to Rule 17a-5 require that audits of brokers and dealers be performed in 
accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board standards, effective for audits of fiscal years ending 
on or after June 1, 2014.  The auditor independence requirement of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X applied to broker-
dealer audits both before and after the July 30, 2013 amendments.    At the time of the relevant conduct, prior to the 
amendments, that requirement was set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(3).  It is now set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(1). 

                                                     2 
                                                      
---------------------Page 3---------------------

C.     FACTS 

       1.      Lack of Independence 

       a.      During fiscal years 2010 through 2012 (the “Relevant Period”), BKD served as 
the independent public accountant for 21 broker-dealer audit clients.  In connection with at least 
one audit performed for nine of its broker-dealer audit clients during the Relevant Period, BKD 
prepared the financial statements and/or notes to the financial statements that were filed with the 
Commission on Form X-17A-5.  

       b.      For example, BKD audited the annual financial statements for one such broker-
dealer (“Broker-Dealer A”) for the fiscal year ending 2011.  During the audit, BKD was 
provided with financial documents generated by Broker-Dealer A, including a trial balance and 
FOCUS reports.   

       c.      BKD then utilized the information contained in these and other source documents 
to create a set of financial statements to be filed with the Commission.  In particular, using the 
prior year’s financial statements as a template, BKD personnel working on BKD computers used 
their engagement software to create the new set of financial statements, including the notes to the 
financial statements.  BKD then provided the set of financial statements it had prepared to 
Broker-Dealer A’s management for approval. 

       d.      In February 2012, Broker-Dealer A filed with the Commission a Form X-17A-5 
Part III for the fiscal year ended 2011.  Included in that filing is an audit report signed by BKD 
and stating, among other things, that BKD’s audit of Broker-Dealer A was conducted “in 
accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.” 

       e.      BKD engaged in substantially similar conduct in connection with at least one 
audit for eight additional broker-dealer clients during the Relevant Period. 

       2.      Violations  

       a.      Section 17(e)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that every registered broker or 
dealer “annually file with the Commission a balance sheet and income statement certified by an 
independent public accounting firm, or by a registered public accounting firm if the firm is 
required to be registered under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, prepared on a calendar or fiscal 
year basis, and such other financial statements (which shall, as the Commission specifies, be 
certified) and information concerning its financial condition as the Commission, by rule may 
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.” 

       b.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(e)(1)(i) states: “An audit shall be conducted by a public 
accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section herein, 
and he shall give an opinion covering the statements filed pursuant to paragraph (d) . . . .” 
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) further states that, for such audits, “[a]n accountant shall be 
independent in accordance with the provisions of Rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X.”   

       c.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(g) requires that “[t]he audit shall be made in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards” and Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) requires 
that “[t]he accountant’s report shall . . . [s]tate whether the audit was made in accordance with 

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

generally accepted auditing standards.”  Generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) 
require auditors to maintain strict independence from their audit clients.  See Statement on 
Auditing Standard No. 1, Section 220.03.  Accordingly, if an auditor’s report states that its audit 
was performed in accordance with GAAS when the auditor was not independent, then it has 
violated Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i).  See In the Matter of Rosenberg Rich Baker Berman & 
Company and Brian Zucker, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 69765 at p. 5 (June 14, 2013).   

       d.      Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X provides that accountants are not independent 
if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the accountant provides 
prohibited non-audit services to an audit client.  Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X provides 
that prohibited non-audit services include bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting 
records or financial statements of the audit client, and defines such services as:   

       Any service, unless it is reasonable to conclude that the results of these services 
       will not be subject to audit procedures during an audit of the audit client's 
       financial statements, including: 

           (A) Maintaining or preparing the audit client's accounting records; 
                
           (B) Preparing the audit client's financial statements that are filed 
               with the Commission or that form the basis of financial 
               statements filed with the Commission; or 
            
           (C) Preparing or originating source data underlying the audit 
               client's financial statements. 
        
       e.      Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X specifically prohibits an audit firm from 
preparing an audit client’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  In this 
context, preparing financial statements includes but is not limited to:  aggregating line items 
from internal books and records to the financial statements; changing line item descriptions; 
drafting or editing notes to the financial statements; and converting FOCUS reports or 
bookkeeping software program reports into financial statements.  With respect to the audit of 
Broker-Dealer A, and the additional audits in which BKD engaged in substantially similar 
conduct, BKD engaged in one or more of the above prohibited actions.  

       f.      As a result of BKD’s conduct described above, BKD was not independent of its 
broker-dealer audit clients under the independence criteria established by Rule 2-01(c)(4) of 
Regulation S-X, which Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 made applicable to the audits of broker-dealer 
financial statements.  As the Commission explained in adopting Rule 2-01(c)(4), providing such 
services for an audit client “impairs the auditor’s independence because the auditor will be 
placed in the position of auditing the firm’s work when auditing the client’s financial statements. 
. . .  In addition, keeping the books is a management function, the performance of which leads to 
an inappropriate mutuality of interests between the auditor and the audit client.”  Revision of the 
Commission’s Auditor Independence Requirements, Exchange Act Release No. 43602, at 
IV.D.4.b(i) (November 21, 2000).  See also Strengthening the Commission’s Requirements 
Regarding Auditor Independence, Exchange Act Release No. 47265 (“keeping the books is a 
management function, which also is prohibited”)(January 28, 2003). 

                                                4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       g.     BKD violated Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) by representing in its audit reports that 
it had performed the audits of the broker-dealers’ financial statements in accordance with GAAS 
when in fact, because of the independence impairment described above, the audits had not been 
performed in accordance with GAAS. 

       h.     Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5 require broker-dealers to file annual 
reports containing financial statements audited by independent public accountants.  No showing 
of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1).  See In the 
Matter of Orlando Joseph Jett, Exchange Act Release No. 49366 at n.45 (March 5, 2004) (citing 
SEC v Drexel Burham Lambert Inc., 837 F. Supp. 587, 610 (S.D.N.Y. 1993); Stead v. SEC, 444 
                    th
F.2d 713, 716-17 (10  Cir. 1971), cert denied, 404 U.S. 1059 (1972)).   

       i.      Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, a person is a “cause” of another’s 
primary violation if the person knew or should have known that his act or omission would 
contribute to the primary violation.  Negligence is sufficient to establish “causing” liability under 
Section 21C when a person is alleged to have caused a primary violation that does not require 
scienter.  In re KPMG Peat Marwick, Exch. Act. Rel. No. 43862 (Jan. 19, 2001), aff’d, KPMG v. 
SEC, 289 F.3d 109 (D.C. Cir. 2002).  

       j.     BKD caused its broker-dealer audit clients to violate Exchange Act Section 17(a) 
and Rule 17a-5.  BKD, an audit firm registered with the PCAOB, knew or should have known 
that its conduct, including incorrectly stating in audit reports that the audits were conducted in 
accordance with GAAS, contributed to its audit clients’ violations of Exchange Act Section 17(a) 
and Rule 17a-5.         

       k.     Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice allows the Commission to 
censure a person if it finds that such person has engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  
Exchange Act § 4C(a)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(ii).  Rule 102(e) defines improper professional 
conduct, in part, as:  “[a] single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which the registered public 
accounting firm or associated person knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is 
warranted.”  Exchange Act § 4C(b)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B). 

       l.      Questions regarding an auditor’s independence always warrant heightened 
scrutiny.  See Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 
57,164, 57,168 (Oct. 26, 1998) (codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201).  The Commission has defined 
the “highly unreasonable” standard as: 

       an intermediate standard, higher than ordinary negligence but lower than the 
       traditional definition of recklessness used in cases brought under Section 10(b) of 
       the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.  The highly unreasonable 
       standard is an objective standard. The conduct at issue is measured by the degree 
       of the departure from professional standards and not the intent of the accountant.   

Id. at 57,167; see also In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-10933, SEC 
Initial Decision Release No. 249, at 60 (Apr. 16, 2004). 

                                               5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       m.     Based on the conduct set forth above, BKD engaged in highly unreasonable 
conduct that resulted in violations of applicable professional standards when it knew or should 
have known that heightened scrutiny was required. 

       3.     Findings 

       a.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that BKD engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Exchange Act Section 4C(a)(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

       b.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that BKD committed violations of 
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) and caused nine broker-dealers’ violations of Section 17(a) and Rule 
17a-5 promulgated thereunder.  

       4.     Respondent’s Remedial Efforts and Cooperation 
 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the remedial acts 
undertaken by Respondent and the cooperation afforded the Commission staff.  As part of its 
remediation, BKD has already implemented or begun to implement some of the Undertakings 
listed below. 
 
       5.     Undertakings 
                                                
       BKD undertakes: 
 
       a.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish written policies 
and procedures, or to revise and/or supplement existing written policies and procedures, for the 
purpose of providing BKD with reasonable assurance of compliance with applicable 
independence requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X 
applicable to an SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (defined to mean an engagement to 
provide a report – whether an audit report, an examination report, or a review report – required 
under Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(d)(1)(i)(C), as amended); 

       b.     within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish a policy of 
ensuring training, whether internal or external, on an annual or more frequent regular basis, 
concerning applicable independence requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of 
Regulation S-X applicable to an SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement, of any Firm audit 
personnel who participate in any way in the planning or performing of any SEC Registered 
Broker-Dealer Engagement; 

       c.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order and before BKD’s 
commencement of any SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (or, where BKD by the date 
of this Order has already commenced but not completed such an engagement, before BKD’s 
release of its report), to ensure training pursuant to the policy described in paragraph (5)(b) 
above has been provided on at least one occasion; 

       d.     to provide a copy of the Order –  

                                               6 
                                                
---------------------Page 7---------------------

              (i)     within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to all audit personnel 
who serve broker-dealer or SEC registrant clients and are employed by, or associated with (as 
defined in PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(i)), BKD as of the date of the Order; and 

              (ii)    within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to any client of BKD as 
of the date of the Order for which BKD has performed or has been engaged to perform an SEC 
Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement;  

       e.     within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to designate and maintain at 
least one partner (the “Independence Partner”) in its national office or headquarters with 
responsibility for monitoring BKD’s compliance with the SEC’s auditor independence rules, 
including without limitation, the adoption, implementation and oversight of policies and 
procedures designed to provide BKD with reasonable assurance of such compliance; 

       f.     within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to adopt and implement 
written procedures to provide reasonable assurance that prohibited bookkeeping services will not 
be provided in connection with any SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement, including 
procedures requiring BKD to complete, on an annual basis, a client continuance form for each 
SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement, which shall contain an assessment of risks and a 
listing of non-audit services being provided, and procedures requiring BKD’s Independence 
Partner to monitor the annual completion and review of client continuance forms for all SEC 
Registered Broker-Dealer Engagements as well as the annual review of such other documents, 
forms or other information sufficient to determine whether any prohibited bookkeeping services 
are being provided in connection with any SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagements;  and    

       g.     to certify in writing to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-
5553, BKD’s compliance with paragraphs 5(a) through 5(f) above.  The certification, which shall 
be signed by the Independence Partner, shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence 
of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate 
compliance.  BKD shall submit such certification within one hundred twenty (120) days from the 
date of the Order.  BKD shall also submit such additional evidence of and information 
concerning compliance as the staff of the Division of Enforcement may reasonably request. 

                                              IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent BKD’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.     BKD is hereby censured. 

       B.     BKD shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 promulgated thereunder. 

       C.     BKD shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section (III)(C)(5) 
above. 

                                               7 
                                                
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       D.     BKD shall, within seven days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty 
in the amount of $15,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  Payment must be made in one 
of the following ways:   

              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
                     which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon 
                     request;  

              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  

              (3)     Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  

              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
BKD as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Stephen L. Cohen, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549-
5553.   

       By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                                  Brent J. Fields 
                                                  Secretary 
 

 

                                              8 
                                                
