---------------------Page 1---------------------

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 76610 / December 10, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3724 / December 10, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16996 
 
                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS   
                                                  PURSUANT TO SECTION  4C OF THE 
In the Matter of                                   SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT             OF 1934 
                                                   AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       ROBIN L. BIGALKE , CPA              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                   
Respondent.                                                                   
 
 
 
 
                                                     
 
                                                I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robin L. Bigalke (“Respondent” 
                                    1
or “Bigalke”) pursuant to Section 4C  of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
                                                             2
and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
               (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
               or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
               laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
                                                 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                  II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                 III. 
 
                                                                                    3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
        
       During 2012, Bigalke falsified and backdated audit documents in an attempt to hide 
improprieties and documentation deficiencies at the audit firm Peter Messineo, CPA, which is now 
known as Messineo & Co., CPAs, LLC (“Messineo & Co.”).  At the time, Messineo & Co. was 
subject to a follow-up inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) 
and an investigation subpoena from the Commission. 
 
B.     RESPONDENT 

       Robin L. Bigalke, age 50, resides in Gulfport, Florida and currently owns RLB Certified 
Public Accountant, a PCAOB-registered public accounting firm based in Gulfport, Florida.  During 
2012, Bigalke was a senior accountant at Messineo & Co., then known as Peter Messineo, CPA.  
Bigalke has been licensed as a Certified Public Accountant (“CPA”) in Rhode Island since 2001 
and in Florida since 2014.   
        
C.     OTHER RELEVANT PARTIES 
 
       Messineo & Co., CPAs, LLC (“Messineo & Co.”) is registered with the Public 
Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) as a public accounting firm based in 
Clearwater, Florida.  The limited liability company operated as a sole proprietorship under the 

                                                                                                                                                             
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
               practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
               professional conduct. 
        
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
       other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                  2 
                                                    
---------------------Page 3---------------------

name Peter Messineo, CPA from 2009 until December 17, 2012, when it effectively merged with 
Drake & Klein, CPAs PA to form DKM Certified Public Accountants, Inc. (“DKM”).  Peter 
Messineo separated from DKM in April 2013 and resumed operating Messineo & Co., but under 
its present name and form.  During 2012, it performed audit services for over 70 clients, but only 
had one partner -- sole owner Peter Messineo -- authorized to sign or issue audit reports.  In 2012, 
Messineo & Co. employed Bigalke and paid Joseph E. Mohr to perform engagement quality 
reviews (“EQRs”).   

       Joseph E. Mohr, age 49, resides in Spring Hill, Florida and is currently a visiting assistant 
professor at a Florida university.  From 2009 through 2012, Mohr performed engagement quality 
reviews (“EQRs”) for Messineo & Co.  At the time, Mohr lived and worked in Florida, but was not 
licensed as a CPA in Florida or in any other state.   
 
D.     BACKDATING ENGAGEMENT QUALITY REVIEW DOCUMENTS 
               
    1.    In 2012, Mohr performed EQRs for Messineo & Co. for its audits and interim reviews.  
           To document Mohr’s EQRs in compliance with auditing standards, Messineo & Co. 
           used a “Concurring Review Questionnaire,” otherwise known as a “Form 4.2,” in 
           connection with each audit.  See PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (“AS 7”).     
                       
   2.     After completing an EQR, Mohr was supposed to answer the questions on the 
           Concurring Review Questionnaire and then sign and date the Questionnaire.  The date 
           on the form was to indicate when Mohr provided concurring approval of the issuance of 
           the audit report.  See AS 7.   
    
   3.     Mohr then emailed the signed forms to Messineo & Co. where the executed Concurring 
           Review Questionnaires were included in the firm’s audit files.  See PCAOB Auditing 
           Standard No. 3 (“AS 3”) & AS 7. 
    
   4.     In April 2012, the PCAOB issued a report following its inspection of Messineo & Co.’s 
           audit files.  The PCAOB’s inspection addressed Messineo & Co.’s practices, policies 
           and procedures related to audit quality.  The report stated that Messineo & Co. needed to 
           address any defects in its quality control system within 12 months or the nonpublic 
           portion of the PCAOB’s report would be made public. 
    
   5.     Following the PCAOB’s inspection report, in August 2012, Messineo & Co. began to 
           conduct a review of its audit files to identify any deficiencies and identified different 
           engagements for which either:   
        
             i.    it was missing a Concurring Review Questionnaire signed by Mohr; or 
               
            ii.    the signed Concurring Review Questionnaire was dated after the audit report had 
                  been issued by Messineo & Co., indicating that Messineo & Co. had issued the 
                  audit report prior to Mohr’s completion of his EQR. 
            
                                               3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

   6.     As a result, Bigalke requested Mohr backdate his signature on Concurring Review 
          Questionnaires for multiple public company audit clients.  Bigalke even requested Mohr 
          backdate documents responsive to an investigation subpoena served by the Commission 
          on Messineo & Co.       
    
   7.     Mohr complied with many -- if not all -- of Bigalke’s requests.  He knowingly 
          misrepresented the dates that he completed his EQRs. 
    
   8.     Bigalke then inserted the backdated Questionnaires into Messineo & Co.’s audit files, 
          including into files which were -- pursuant to auditing standards – putatively “locked-
          down” because the audit report had been issued more than 45 days previously.  See 
          PCAOB AS 3. 
        
E.     FALSIFICATION OF AUDIT DOCUMENTS 
               
   9.     In 2012, Bigalke completed various audit checklists and forms, including “Audit 
          Documentation Checklists” and “Supervision, Review, and Approval Forms,” on behalf 
          of Messineo & Co. in connection with various engagements, including two specific 
          issuers.   
    
   10.    On the audit forms for those two issuers, Bigalke signed Peter Messineo’s name and 
          initials on his behalf.  By signing Messineo’s name, she represented that the EQR was 
          adequately performed, timely, and that the audit files contained documentation of the 
          EQRs. 
    
   11.    The representations on the forms were false.  As of the date indicated on the respective 
          forms, neither Mohr -- nor anyone else -- had performed the EQRs for those issuers and 
          no corresponding documentation existed in Messineo & Co.’s audit files.  These false 
          documents were then inserted into Messineo & Co.’s audit files. 
        
F.     BIGALKE’S FAILED TO EXERCISE PROFESSIONAL DUE CARE WHEN SHE 
       PARTICIPATED IN A SCHEME TO BACKDATE DOCUMENTS IN VIOLATION 
       OF PCAOB STANDARDS. 
        
   15.    PCAOB Interim Auditing Standard AU 230 (Due Professional Care in the Performance 
          of Work) “requires the independent auditor to plan and perform his or her work with due 
          professional care. Due professional care imposes a responsibility upon each professional 
          within an independent auditor's organization to observe the standards of field work and 
          reporting.”  See PCAOB AU 230.02. 
           
   16.    Bigalke violated AU 230 when she requested Mohr backdate his signature on the 
          Concurring Review Questionnaires (Form 4.2s) to a date before the issuance of the audit 
          report when he had not, in fact, concluded his review and provided concurring approval 
          of issuance by that date. 

                                              4 
                                                
---------------------Page 5---------------------

            
   17.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7 (Engagement Quality Review) enumerates the 
           standards for an EQR or concurring review.  AS 7 requires an EQR to be performed for 
           every audit and interim review.   See PCAOB AS 7.1.   
                
   18.    For both audits and interim reviews, AS 7 prohibits a firm from granting permission to 
           its client to use the engagement report until the engagement quality reviewer provides 
           concurring approval of issuance.  See PCAOB AS 7.13 & AS 7.18.   
    
   19.    AS 7 requires that “an engagement quality reviewer must have competence, 
           independence, integrity, and objectivity.”  See PCAOB AS 7.4. 
    
   20.    AS 7 requires that documentation of an EQR should “contain sufficient information to 
           enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the engagement, to 
           understand the procedures performed by the engagement quality reviewer…to comply 
           with the provisions of this standard, including information that identifies: 
        
                                        *       *      * 
               c.      The date the engagement quality reviewer provided concurring 
                      approval of issuance or, if no concurring approval of issuance was 
                      provided, the reasons for not providing the approval.” 
           See PCAOB AS 7.19. 
        
   21.    Bigalke further violated AU 230 and AS 3 when she inserted the backdated and falsified 
           Concurring Review Questionnaires into Messineo & Co.’s audit files.  This violation 
           was compounded by the fact that the addition occurred more than 45 days after the 
           report release date without indication of the date the information was added, the name of 
           the person who prepared the additional documentation, and the reason for adding it.  See 
           PCAOB AS 3.15.   
            
   22.    AS 7 states that “[d]ocumentation of an engagement quality review should be included 
           in the engagement documentation” and that “[t]he requirements related to retention of 
           and subsequent changes to audit documentation in PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3, 
           Audit Documentation, apply with respect to the documentation of the engagement 
           quality review.”  See PCAOB AS 7.20 and 7.21. 
    
   23.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 3 (Audit Documentation) provides the requirements for 
           documentation an auditor should prepare and retain for engagements.  Per AS 3, audit 
           documentation must document the nature, timing, and results of the procedures 
           performed.  See PCAOB AS 3.6 
    
   24.    AS 3 requires an auditor to assemble a complete and final set of audit documentation no 
           more than 45 days of the report release date (“documentation completion date”).  Audit 
           documentation may not be deleted or discarded following the documentation completion 

                                                5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

           date.  AS 3 mandates that any documentation added after the document completion date 
           “must indicate the date the information was added, the name of the person who prepared 
           the additional documentation, and the reason for adding it.”  See PCAOB AS 3.15 and 
           3.16.   
    
   25.    Therefore, Bigalke violated AU 230 and AS 3 when she falsified audit documentation 
           and included it within the audit files.   
 
G.     Violations 
 
   27.    As a result of the conduct described above, Bigalke engaged in improper professional 
           conduct as defined in Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) in that she violated applicable professional 
           standards or committed repeated instances of unreasonable negligent conduct each 
           resulting in a violation of applicable professional standards that indicate a lack of 
           competence to practice before the Commission. 
                
H.     Findings 
        
   28.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Bigalke engaged in improper 
           professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
           102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Bigalke’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Bigalke is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
          
       B.     After 3 years from the date of this order, Bigalke may request that the Commission 
consider her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) 
to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
                
       1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of any 
               public company's financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
               application must satisfy the Commission that Bigalke’s work in her practice before 
               the Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the 
               public company for which she works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as 
               she practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or  
                
       2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that:  

                                                6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                
                  (a)  Bigalke, or the public accounting firm with which she is associated, is 
                       registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board ("Board") 
                       in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
                       continues to be effective; 
                
                  (b)  Bigalke, or the registered public accounting firm with which she is 
                       associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
                       identify any criticisms of or potential defects in Bigalke’s or the firm's 
                       quality control system that would indicate that Bigalke will not receive 
                       appropriate supervision; 
                
                  (c)  Bigalke has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has complied 
                       with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other 
                       than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                
                  (d)  Bigalke acknowledges her responsibility, as long as she appears or practices 
                       before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
                       requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, 
                       all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
                       reviews and quality control standards. 
                
       3.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing or 
               practicing before the Commission provided that her CPA license is current and she 
               has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of accountancy.  
               However, if CPA licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
               Commission will consider an application on its own merits.  The Commission’s 
               review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, 
               any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
               or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                 7 
                                                   
