---------------------Page 1---------------------

              

                                         UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                     Before the 
                                  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
                                                           
              
             SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
             Release No. 74827 / April 29, 2015 
              
             INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
             Release No. 4072 / April 29, 2015 
              
             INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
             Release No. 31585 / April 29, 2015 
              
             ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
             Release No.  3654 / April 29, 2015 
              
             ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
             File No. 3-16519 
             ____________________________________             
                                                      : 
                                                      :           ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
             In the Matter of                         :      ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND- 
                                                      :      DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
                    SIMON LESSER, CPA, CA             :           TO SECTION 4C OF THE  
                                                      :           SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
             Respondent.                              :           1934, SECTION 203(k) OF THE  
                                                      :           INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF                                                     
                                                      :      1940, SECTION 9(b) OF THE 
                                                      :      INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT, AND  
                                                      :      RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                                      :      RULES OF PRACTICE, MAKING 
                                                      :      FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
                                                      :      REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A 
             ____________________________________  :         CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
 
                                                                 
                                                         I. 
              
                    The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
             public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
                                                     1
             instituted pursuant to pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 

                                                              
             1
                    Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 

              

              
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

Act”), Sections 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”), Section 9(b) of 
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”), and Rule 102(e) of the 
                                   2
Commission’s Rules of Practice  against Simon Lesser (“Lesser” or “Respondent”). 

                                                    II. 

        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer of 
Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of 
these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to 
which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to 
the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Section 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
                                                                      
                                                   III. 
 
                                                                                      3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds         that : 
 
A.      SUMMARY 
 
        1.      Over a period of four years, Simon Lesser, an audit partner at McGladrey LLP 
(“McGladrey”), approved McGladrey’s issuance of audit reports containing unqualified opinions 
that financial statements for several private funds were presented fairly in conformity with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”) even though the financial statements did not 
adequately disclose related party relationships or material related party transactions.  In particular, 
the investment adviser to the private funds used fund assets to pay its own adviser-related operating 
expenses, transferring $3,452,353 from the funds over the course of four years.  These material 
related party transactions involved related party relationships that GAAP requires be disclosed in 
financial statements.  Despite that requirement, the relationships and transactions were not disclosed 
in the private funds’ financial statements.  Lesser knew about the related party relationships and 
transactions, but nevertheless gave his final approval for McGladrey to issue audit reports 

                                                                                                                                                             
The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege of 
appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . to have engaged in … 
improper professional conduct. 

2
        Rule  102(e)  (1)(i i) pro vides, in pertinent part, that: 

The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to 
any person who is found...to have engaged in … improper professional conduct. 

3
        The  findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                    2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

containing unqualified opinions that the private funds’ financial statements were presented fairly in 
conformity with GAAP.  The adviser then provided the audited financial statements to the private 
funds’ investors in order to comply with the custody rule under the Advisers Act.  Further, in 
conducting his audit work, Lesser failed to conduct the audits in accordance with many Generally 
Accepted Auditing Standards (“GAAS”), including failing to have adequate professional 
skepticism, failing to supervise the audit and failing to adequately document McGladrey’s audit 
work.  As a result, Lesser aided and abetted and caused the adviser’s violations of the Advisers 
Act’s custody rule and engaged in improper professional conduct within the meaning of Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   

B.     RESPONDENT 

       2.     Simon Lesser, CPA, CA (“Lesser”), age 58, resides in Wilmette, Illinois.  Lesser 
is currently a partner at McGladrey, a PCAOB-registered accounting firm, and has worked for 
McGladrey since 2005.  He is a certified public accountant licensed in Illinois and a chartered 
accountant in England and Wales.  At McGladrey, Lesser specializes in audits of entities within 
the financial services industry, and the majority of his McGladrey clients are private funds.     

C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUAL 

       3.     Alpha Titans LLC (“Alpha Titans”) is a California limited liability company 
based in Santa Barbara, California.  It has been registered with the Commission as an investment 
adviser since 2007.  As a registered investment adviser, Alpha Titans is subject to the custody 
rule promulgated under Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and set forth as Rule 206(4)-2 
thereunder.  Alpha Titans elected to comply with the custody rule by distributing to the private 
funds’ investors annual audited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, and 
audited by an independent public accountant registered with, and subject to regular inspection 
by, the PCAOB, within 120 days of the end of the fiscal year.  Alpha Titans did not submit to 
surprise examinations.         

       4.     Alpha Titans LP, a Delaware limited partnership, is an onshore hedge fund 
formed by Alpha Titans’ principal in September 2007; Alpha Titans is the general partner.  
Alpha Titans, Ltd. (collectively with Alpha Titans LP, the “Feeder Funds”), a Cayman Islands 
exempted company, is an offshore hedge fund formed by Alpha Titans’ principal in October 
2007 and managed by Alpha Titans.   

       5.     Alpha Titans MF SPC (the “Master Fund”), a Cayman Islands segregated 
portfolio company, is a hedge fund formed by Alpha Titans’ principal in October 2007.  Alpha 
Titans pools together assets from the Feeder Funds to invest in the Master Fund.  Alpha Titans 
and Alpha Titans’ principal control these funds. 

       6.     Montreux Partners SPC (“Montreux”), a Cayman Islands exempted segregated 
portfolio company, and Trading Solutions Ltd. (“Trading Solutions”), a Cayman Islands 
exempted company, are operated by Alpha Titans’ principal as special purpose vehicles for use 
with the Master Fund’s investments.  Alpha Titans’ principal also uses Montreux to pay Alpha 
Titans’ adviser-related operating expenses.  Alpha Titans’ principal formed Montreux and 
Trading Solutions in February 2008 and June 2009, respectively, and he controls both entities.     

                                               3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

D.     FACTS 

                                         Background 

       7.     Alpha Titans’ principal controls Alpha Titans, the Feeder Funds, the Master Fund, 
Trading Solutions and Montreux.  Limited partners and shareholders invested money in the 
Feeder Funds.  That money then flowed to the Master Fund.  The Master Fund purchased equity 
options from Trading Solutions.  Trading Solutions invested that money in Montreux.  
Ultimately, Montreux used the Feeder Funds’ money to invest in unrelated private funds. 

       8.     From August 2009 through 2012, the Master Fund and Montreux used investor 
money to pay Alpha Titans’ operating expenses.  In particular, from August 2009 through 2012, 
the Master Fund paid $2,004,576 of Alpha Titans’ employee salaries and health benefits.  
Similarly, from October 2009 through 2012, Montreux paid $1,447,777 of Alpha Titans’ 
operating expenses, including monthly office rent and parking, utility and phone bills, credit card 
bills, employee salaries and benefits, and other adviser-related operating expenses.   

     Alpha Titans Did Not Prepare the Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s Financial 
Statements in Accordance with GAAP, Which Led Alpha Titans to Violate the Custody Rule  

       9.     Alpha Titans engaged McGladrey as the Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s 
independent public accountant to audit their financial statements for the fiscal years ended 
December 31, 2009, 2010, 2011, and 2012.  To comply with the custody rule, Alpha Titans 
apparently intended to provide the Feeder Funds’ limited partners and shareholders with GAAP-
compliant financial statements of the Feeder Fund and the Master Fund, pursuant to the custody 
rule exception found in Advisers Act Rule 206(4)-2(b)(4). 

       10.    GAAP provides disclosure requirements for related party relationships and 
transactions in financial statements.  (See, generally, Financial Accounting Standards Board 
(FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 850-10-50)  Alpha Titans, the Feeder Funds, 
the Master Fund, Montreux and Trading Solutions were related parties because Alpha Titans’ 
principal had common control over each entity since Alpha Titans’ principal formed and directed 
all investment activities and operating policies of each entity.  (ASC 850-10-20, et seq.)  This 
common control allowed Alpha Titans’ principal to pay Alpha Titans’ adviser-related 
operational expenses, including employee salaries and related expenses, using money held by 
Montreux and the Master Fund.  This led to operating results of the Feeder Funds and the Master 
Fund that could have been “significantly different” from those that would have been obtained if 
Alpha Titans’ principal did not have the control and ability to cause these entities to pay Alpha 
Titans’ adviser-related operating expenses.  (ASC 850-10-50-6)  The Master Fund’s and 
Montreux’s payments of Alpha Titans’ adviser-related operating expenses were material related 
party transactions in fiscal years 2009 through 2012. 

       11.    The Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s audited financial statements for fiscal 
years 2009 through 2012 were not in compliance with GAAP.  In particular, the Feeder Funds’ 
and the Master Fund’s audited financial statements for fiscal years 2009 through 2012 did not 
disclose (i) the related party relationships among Alpha Titans, the Feeder Funds, the Master 
Fund, Trading Solutions and Montreux, and Alpha Titans’ principal’s common control of these 

                                              4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

entities, and (ii) the material related party transactions concerning the Master Fund’s and 
Montreux’s payments of Alpha Titans’ adviser-related operating expenses.   

       12.    Neither the Feeder Funds’ nor the Master Fund’s 2009 financial statements 
disclosed (i) the related party relationships, (ii) that Montreux paid $208,712 of related party 
expenses, and (iii) that $287,420 of the Master Fund’s operating expenses were related party 
transactions.  The 2009 financial statements for the Feeder Funds included a note disclosing 
(collectively) only $318 of related party transactions and did not make any disclosure as to the 
related party relationships.  Further, the Master Fund financial statements included operating 
expenses totaling $319,823, but did not disclose that $287,420 (or 90%) was attributable to 
Alpha Titans’ employee payroll and benefits, which were related party transactions.  Rather, the 
notes to the financial statements disclosed only $1,226 in related party transactions and did not 
describe the related party relationships.   

       13.    Neither the Feeder Funds’ nor the Master Fund’s 2010 financial statements 
disclosed (i) the related party relationships, (ii) that Montreux paid $361,429 of related party 
expenses, and (iii) that all of the Master Fund’s operating expenses were related party 
transactions.  Instead, the 2010 financial statements for the Feeder Funds included a note 
indicating there were no related party transactions.  For example, in Alpha Titans LP’s 2010 
financial statements, the note provided “Pursuant to the terms of the Fund’s limited partnership 
agreement, the General Partner is able to pay expenses on behalf of the Fund and subsequently 
be reimbursed for actual overhead costs and expenses that are directly connected with the 
management and operations of the Fund.  For the year ended December 31, 2010, there was no 
reimbursement.”  The Master Fund’s financial statements included operating expenses totaling 
$634,895, but did not disclose that 100% of it was attributable to Alpha Titans’ employee payroll 
and benefits, which were related party transactions.  Rather, the notes to the financial statements 
disclosed only $1,043 in related party transactions and did not explain the related party 
relationships.     

       14.    Neither the Feeder Funds’ nor the Master Fund’s 2011 financial statements 
disclosed (i) the related party relationships, (ii) that Montreux paid $537,999 of related party 
expenses, and (iii) that $614,995 of the Master Fund’s operating expenses were related party 
transactions.  Instead, the 2011 financial statements for the Feeder Funds and the Master Fund 
included a note indicating there were no related party transactions.  For example, in Alpha Titans 
LP’s 2011 financial statements, the note provided “Pursuant to the terms of the Fund’s limited 
partnership agreement, the General Partner is able to pay expenses on behalf of the Fund and 
subsequently be reimbursed for actual overhead costs and expenses that are directly connected 
with the management and operations of the Fund.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, there 
was no reimbursement.”  The Master Fund’s financial statements included operating expenses 
totaling $700,736, but did not disclose that $614,995 (or 88%) was attributable to Alpha Titans’ 
employee payroll, benefits, and other employee payments, which were related party transactions.     

       15.    Neither the Feeder Funds’ nor the Master Fund’s 2012 financial statements 
disclosed (i) all the related party relationships, and (ii) that Montreux paid $339,639 of related 
party expenses.  Instead, the 2012 financial statements for the Feeder Funds included a note 
indicating there were no related party transactions.  For example, in Alpha Titans LP’s 2012 
financial statements, the note provided “Pursuant to the terms of the Fund’s limited partnership 

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

agreement, the General Partner is able to pay expenses on behalf of the Fund and subsequently 
be reimbursed for actual overhead costs and expenses that are directly connected with the 
management and operations of the Fund.  For the year ended December 31, 2012, there was no 
reimbursement.”  The Master Fund’s financial statements included operating expenses totaling 
$781,732.  Unlike previous years, the notes to the financial statements provided some additional 
detail, explaining that “During 2012, employees of the Investment Manager did provide services 
to the Company in the amount of $467,267 and were paid by the Company.”   

       16.    Overall, from 2009 through 2012, Montreux paid a total of $1,447,777 in related 
party transactions that were not disclosed in the Feeder Funds’ or the Master Fund’s financial 
statements.  In addition, from 2009 through 2011, the Master Fund paid a total of $1,537,309 of 
Alpha Titans’ employee payroll, benefits and other employee payments that were not identified 
as related party transactions in the notes to the financial statements, but instead were listed 
simply as “operating expenses” on the income statement for the Master Fund.   

       17.    For the 2009 through 2012 fiscal year-ends, McGladrey’s audit reports stated that 
it audited the Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s financial statements in accordance with 
GAAS, and included unqualified opinions for each entity, in each year, that the financial 
statements were presented fairly in conformity with GAAP.   

       18.    Lesser served as the lead engagement partner for the fiscal year-end 2009 through 
2012 financial statement audits of the Feeder Funds and the Master Fund.  Lesser was 
responsible for the audit engagement and its performance and for the audit report issued on 
behalf of McGladrey. 

       19.    Lesser knew that Alpha Titans, the Feeder Funds, the Master Fund, Trading 
Solutions and Montreux were related parties and that the Master Fund and Montreux paid Alpha 
Titans’ operating expenses during the Feeder Funds’ fiscal years 2009 through 2012.  Lesser also 
knew that Alpha Titans had engaged McGladrey in order to comply with the custody rule.   

       20.    Despite his knowledge of the relationship between Alpha Titans, the Feeder 
Funds, the Master Fund, Trading Solutions, and Montreux, Lesser approved the issuance of the 
audit reports which contained unqualified opinions on behalf of McGladrey for the Feeder 
Funds’ and the Master Fund’s fiscal years 2009 through 2012 financial statements.   

       21.    Alpha Titans distributed to investors the Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s 
audited financial statements, which were not prepared in accordance with GAAP.  Because the 
audited financial statements were not GAAP compliant, Alpha Titans failed to meet the 
requirements for the exception to the custody rule found in Advisers Act Rule 206(4)-2(b)(4), for 
fiscal years 2009 through 2012.   

Lesser Engaged in Improper Professional Conduct in Performing the Audits for the Feeder 
              Funds and the Master Fund for Fiscal Years 2009 through 2012 

       Lesser Failed to Exercise Due Professional Care 

       22.    McGladrey’s audit reports for the Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s financial 
statements state that the audits were conducted in accordance with GAAS.  Lesser’s audit work 

                                               6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

was subject to American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) professional 
auditing standards.  Lesser, as the lead engagement partner, was responsible for ensuring that the 
audit team complied with these professional standards.  Lesser also was responsible for ensuring 
that the audit engagement team adequately documented in the work papers their findings, 
analysis and information on which they relied when forming the audit opinions. 

       23.    Under GAAS, as codified in the Statements on Auditing Standards, auditors are 
                                                                 4
required to exercise due professional care throughout the audit.     (AU §  230 )  Due professional 
care requires that the auditor exercise professional skepticism.  Under this standard, 
“[p]rofessional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence.”  (AU § 230.07)  “Since evidence is gathered and evaluated 
throughout the audit, professional skepticism should be exercised throughout the audit process.” 
(AU § 230.08)  Additionally, standards dealing directly with related party transactions require 
that “the auditor should view related party transactions within the framework of existing 
[accounting] pronouncements, placing primary emphasis on the adequacy of disclosure.” (AU 
§ 334.02) (emphasis added)  The auditor should apply procedures to obtain satisfaction about the 
related party transactions and the effect on financial statements.  (AU § 334.09)  For each 
“material related party transaction … common ownership or management control relationship… 
the auditor should consider whether he has obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence to 
understand the relationship of the parties and, … the effects of the transaction on the financial 
statements.” (AU § 334.11)  Under the 2012 clarified standards, “[t]he auditor should plan and 
perform an audit with professional skepticism, recognizing that circumstances may exist that 
cause the financial statements to be materially misstated.”  (AU-C § 200.17)  An auditor must 
obtain sufficient audit evidence in order to evaluate whether related party relationships and 
transactions have been appropriately identified, accounted for, and disclosed in the financial 
statements.  (AU-C §§ 550.09b and 550.26a)  The auditor has “responsibility to perform audit 
procedures to identify, assess, and respond to the risks of material misstatement arising from the 
entity’s failure to appropriately account for or disclose related party relationships, transactions, 
or balances.”  (AU-C § 550.04) 

       24.    Lesser did not exercise the requisite level of care when conducting the audit and 
signing off on the Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s audited financial statements for fiscal 
years 2009 through 2012.  Lesser’s knowledge that Alpha Titans’ principal controlled the 
relevant entities and that the Master Fund and Montreux used Feeder Funds’ assets to pay Alpha 
Titans’ adviser-related operating expenses should have caused Lesser to place greater emphasis 
on the related party relationships and transactions, and the adequacy of the related party 
disclosures.  He did not.  The workpapers do not document the nature of the relationships 
between all the entities, the related party transactions of the Master Fund and Montreux paying 
Alpha Titans’ adviser-related operating expenses, or the consideration of what disclosures, if 
any, should have been made in the financial statements and whether the financial statements 
complied with GAAP without the related party disclosures.   
                                                 
4
       GAAS and the professional standards are embodied in the Codification of Statements of Auditing 
Standards, as issued by the Auditing Standards Board of the AICPA.  “AU” refers to the specific sections of the 
codification.  The Auditing Standards Board redrafted the auditing sections in Codification of Statements on 
Auditing Standards (contained in AICPA Professional Standards) for clarity.  These clarified standards are effective 
for audits ending on or after December 15, 2012, and will be referenced as “AU-C” herein. 

                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

       Lesser Failed to Adequately Plan the Financial Statement Audits 

       25.    An auditor must adequately plan the audit.  (AU § 311)  This standard requires 
that the auditor obtain a level of knowledge of the entity’s business that will enable him to plan 
and perform his audit in accordance with GAAS.  That level of knowledge should enable the 
auditor to obtain an understanding of the events, transactions, and practices that, in his judgment, 
may have a significant effect on the financial statements.  In planning the audit, among other 
considerations, an auditor should understand the entity’s business “and its environment, 
including its internal control.”  (AU § 311.03)  As of 2012, an auditor should develop an audit 
plan that includes a description of: (a) the nature and extent of planned risk assessment 
procedures; (b) the nature, timing, and extent of planned further audit procedures; and (c) other 
planned audit procedures that are required to be carried out so that the engagement complies with 
GAAS.  The auditor should also “update and change the overall audit strategy and audit plan, as 
necessary, during the course of the audit.”  (AU-C §§ 300.09 and 300.10) 

       26.    As the engagement partner of the Feeder Funds’ and the Master Fund’s financial 
statement audits, Lesser failed to adequately plan the audits to address the possibility of material 
misstatement due to omitted related party disclosures.  Although the audit team identified a risk 
of material misstatement concerning related parties for the 2009 audit, specifically “[h]igh 
volume of cash transfers between related parties (between the Funds),” and Lesser signed off on 
this work paper, Lesser did not document an audit plan in place to address this risk.  In the 2010 
and 2011 financial statement audits, the work papers did not even identify related party cash 
transfers or transactions as a risk of material misstatement.  Further, Lesser did not plan the audit 
to address the high risks related to related parties even though he knew of the related party 
relationships and the related party transactions.  In 2012, Lesser identified related party 
transactions as a significant risk, yet he still failed to properly address this risk and adequately 
plan the financial statement audits.  While the audit work papers reflected increased procedures 
and testing of the related party transactions, there were no additional analyses or documentation 
concerning the continued omission of the related party disclosures from the financial statements.  
Similar to 2009 through 2011, in 2012, Lesser did not adjust the planned audit strategy to 
reevaluate whether related party disclosures were required by GAAP. 

       Lesser Failed to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence Regarding  
       Related Party Transactions 

       27.    For the 2009 through 2011 audits, GAAS provided that an auditor must obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the 
financial statements under audit.  (AU § 326.01)  With respect to related party transactions, after 
identifying the transactions, the auditor should apply the procedures considered necessary to 
obtain satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, and extent of those transactions and their 
effect on the financial statements.  This may include taking the steps necessary to obtain “an 
understanding of the business purpose of the transaction” and examining supporting 
documentation, such as invoices and copies of contracts. (AU § 334.09)  The auditing standards 
in effect for 2012 provide that “[t]he auditor should design and perform audit procedures that are 
appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose of obtaining sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence.”  (AU-C § 500.06)  

                                                8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

       28.    Lesser did not obtain sufficient appropriate evidence to determine whether related 
party transactions were adequately disclosed in the funds’ financial statements.  Although 
expenses that Montreux paid were reflected in the net investment performance of the Master 
Fund, there were no disclosures about the related party transactions themselves.  In each year, the 
audit team looked at only one transaction in the Montreux bank account, which was unrelated to 
related party transactions.  The audit documentation, including the “Summary of Significant 
Audit Findings or Issues” work paper, which Lesser signed off on, did not contain any analyses 
or conclusions on how the evidence supported the adequacy of the related party disclosures.       

       Lesser Failed to Prepare Adequate Audit Documentation 

       29.    An “auditor must prepare audit documentation in connection with each 
engagement in sufficient detail to provide a clear understanding of the work performed 
(including the nature, timing, extent, and results of audit procedures performed), the audit 
evidence obtained and its source, and the conclusions reached.” (AU §339.03)  The 2012 
auditing standards provide that “[t]he auditor should prepare audit documentation that is 
sufficient to enable an experienced auditor, having no previous connection with the audit, to 
understand” the nature, timing, extent, and results of the audit procedures performed, the 
evidence obtained, and significant findings or issues, conclusions reached, and significant 
professional judgments made in reaching those conclusions.  (AU-C § 230.08)  The auditor 
should also document “the names of the identified related parties and the nature of the related 
party relationships.” (AU-C § 550.28)   

       30.    Lesser failed to comply with these requirements.  The audit documentation for the 
2009 through 2012 financial statement audits, prepared and maintained by Lesser and the 
McGladrey audit team under his supervision, is not sufficient to enable an experienced auditor to 
understand the “nature, timing, extent and results of audit procedures performed” in a variety of 
areas.  Although members of the audit team understood that the Feeder Funds, the Master Fund, 
Montreux, Trading Solutions and Alpha Titans were related parties, the related party 
relationships, transactions, analyses, and/or conclusions reached regarding the adequacy of 
related party disclosures were not reflected in the workpapers.  In each year, the workpapers 
supporting the financial statement audits of the Feeder Funds, the Master Fund, Trading 
Solutions, and Montreux were all included in one audit file, but the documents did not describe 
the related party nature of the organizational structure, the related party relationships between all 
the funds, or the related party transactions between the Master Fund, Montreux and Alpha 
Titans.  The workpapers also did not include any considerations, analyses or conclusions 
explaining Lesser’s basis for believing that the financial statement disclosures were presented in 
accordance with GAAP despite the omitted related party information.   

        Lesser Was Responsible for the Issuance of Reports with Inaccurate Audit Opinions 

       31.    GAAS requires auditors to state in the audit report whether the financial 
statements are presented in accordance with GAAP.  (AU § 410.01)  If management omits from 
the financial statements, including the accompanying notes, information that is required by 
GAAP, the auditor should express a qualified or adverse opinion and provide the information, if 
practicable.  (AU § 431.03)  Under the 2012 standards, an auditor should modify the opinion 
when it concludes that the financial statements as a whole are materially misstated or is unable to 

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

obtain sufficient appropriate evidence to conclude that they are free from material misstatement.  
(AU-C § 705.07)  For all years, GAAP required detailed disclosures about related party 
transactions, including disclosure of the nature of the relationships with the related parties, a 
description of the related party transaction and the related dollar amounts.  (ASC 850-10-50-1) 

       32.    As the lead engagement partner with ultimate responsibility for the Feeder Funds’ 
and the Master Fund’s financial statement audits for fiscal years 2009 through 2012, Lesser 
approved the issuance of audit reports containing unqualified opinions even though the related 
party relationships and transactions were not adequately disclosed in conformity with GAAP and 
McGladrey’s audits were not conducted in accordance with GAAS.  Because the required 
disclosures were omitted, McGladrey should not have issued audit reports containing unqualified 
opinions. 

       Lesser Failed to Properly Supervise the Financial Statement Audits 

       33.    GAAS requires audit supervisors to supervise the planning and conduct of an 
audit.  (AU §311.01)  “Supervision involves directing the efforts of assistants who are involved 
in accomplishing the objectives of the audit and determining whether those objectives were 
accomplished.”  Elements of supervision include instructing assistants, keeping informed of 
significant issues, and reviewing the work.  (AU § 311.28)  For the 2012 audits, the engagement 
partner should have taken responsibility for the direction, supervision, and performance of the 
audit engagement in compliance with professional standards.  (AU-C § 220.17)  “The 
engagement partner should take responsibility for reviews being performed in accordance with 
the firm’s review policies and procedures.”  (AU-C § 220.18)  Moreover, the engagement partner 
should review the audit documentation, have discussions with the audit engagement team and 
“be satisfied that sufficient appropriate audit evidence has been obtained to support the 
conclusions reached and for the auditor’s report to be issued.”  (AU-C § 220.19) 

       34.    Lesser failed to adequately supervise the McGladrey staff auditors on the 2009 
through 2012 financial statement audits.  While Lesser understood the relationship among all of 
the relevant entities and that the Master Fund and Montreux paid Alpha Titans’ adviser-related 
operating expenses using investor monies, he did not require the team to obtain sufficient 
appropriate evidence necessary to justify the omitted related party disclosures in the audited 
financial statements.  He also did not appropriately address the significant issue of related party 
disclosures, direct his team to adjust the audit plan, strategy, or documentation, or properly 
determine whether related party disclosures were adequately evaluated by the engagement team. 

E.     VIOLATIONS 

       35.    As a result of the conduct described above, Lesser willfully aided and abetted and 
caused Alpha Titans’ violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2, the 
custody rule, promulgated thereunder. 

       36.    Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice define improper professional conduct with respect to persons licensed to 
practice as accountants.  Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice provide that improper professional conduct includes “[r]epeated 

                                               10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of applicable professional 
standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.” 

       37.    As a result of the conduct described above, Lesser engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Lesser engaged in repeated instances 
of unreasonable conduct with respect to the 2009 through 2012 financial statement audits of the 
Alpha Titans’ Feeder Funds and the Master Fund, which resulted in violations of professional 
standards. 

                                               IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act, Section 203(k) of the Advisers 
Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.      Lesser shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 thereunder. 
 
       B.      Lesser is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant. 
        
       C.      After three years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
             
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that their work in their practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which they work or in some other acceptable manner, as long as they practice before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
        
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
             
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
and such registration continues to be effective; 
        
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in  the quality control system relating to the work of Lesser that would 
indicate that Lesser will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                                               11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
        
                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears 
or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all 
requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
relating to registration, inspections, engagement quality reviews, and quality control standards.   
        
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his CPA license is current and he has resolved 
all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of accountancy.  However, if CPA 
licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       E.     Lesser shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay civil money penalties 
in the amount of $75,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. 
        
       F.     Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
        
              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                     will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
               
              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
        
                          Enterprise Services Center 
                          Accounts Receivable Branch 
                          HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                          6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                          Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Lesser as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of 
the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to C. Dabney O’Riordan, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 South Flower Street, Suite 900, Los 
Angeles, California 90071.  

                                              12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

                                                 V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S. C. §523, that the findings in this Order are true and admitted 
by Respondent Lesser, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or 
other amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, 
decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation 
by Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as 
set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                               Brent J. Fields 
                                               Secretary 

                                                 13 
 
