---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79176 / October 27, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3819 / October 27, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17104 
 
                                               
In the Matter of                              ORDER PURSUANT TO SECTION 4C           OF 
                                              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
      BioElectronics Corp.,                   1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
      IBEX, LLC,                              COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
      St. John’s, LLC,                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
            Robert P. Bedwell , CPA, 
                                    
Respondent s. 
 
       
                                           I.  
 
       On February 5, 2016, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) instituted 
proceedings against Robert P. Bedwell, CPA (“Respondent” or “Bedwell”) pursuant to Section 4C 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice. 
 
                                           II. 
 
       Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has 
determined to accept.  Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings 
brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without 
admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of 
this Order Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions as to Robert 
P. Bedwell, CPA (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                             
                                             
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                III. 
                                                   
                                                                              1
        On the basis of this Order and Bedwell’s Offer, the Commission finds    that :       
         
                                             Summary 
     
       1.   The proceedings in this matter as to Bedwell concern his failures as a Certified Public 
Accountant in connection with his audit of Respondent BioElectronics Corp. (“BIEL”).  Bedwell 
was the audit engagement partner who audited the financial statements included in BIEL’s 2009 
10-K, filed with the Commission on March 31, 2010, in which BIEL recorded revenue from two 
invalid “bill and hold” transactions.  Bedwell engaged in improper professional conduct under 
Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.  
 
                                            Respondent 
                                                   
       2.   Respondent Robert P. Bedwell, CPA, age 58, is a resident of Coral Springs, Florida. 
Bedwell is currently licensed as a CPA in Florida and is a partner in a Florida accounting firm.  He 
was the audit engagement partner for BIEL’s 2009 10-K.    
 
                                           Related Party 
 
       3.   Respondent BioElectronics Corp. is a Maryland corporation with a sole location 
employing approximately twelve people in Frederick, Maryland.  The company is engaged in the 
business of making inexpensive, drug-free, anti-inflammatory medical devices and patches 
which use electromagnetic energy.  During the relevant period, BIEL shares were a penny stock 
as that term is defined in Section 3(a)(51) of the Exchange Act and Rule 3a51-1 thereunder.  15 
U.S.C. § 78c(a)(51) and 17 C.F.R. § 240.3a51-1. 
 
                                           Background 
        
       4.   On a Form 10-K filed with the Commission on March 31, 2010 (“2009 10-K”), BIEL 

recorded revenue from two “bill and hold” transactions in which BIEL retained the goods it 

claimed to have sold.  These transactions, which totaled $366,000, represented 47% of the revenue 

in 2009 and were material to BIEL. 

    

       5.   BIEL disclosed an accounting policy in its 10-K filed on March 31, 2010 that it 

“recognize[d] revenue when evidence of an arrangement exists, such as the presence of an 

executed sales agreement, pricing is fixed and determinable, collection is reasonably assured and 

shipment has occurred or title of the goods has been transferred to our buyers.”  

        

                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to    Bedwell 's Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.    

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       6.   BIEL further disclosed its policy for bill and hold revenue recognition. “We 
recognize revenue on bill and hold arrangements when the following 7 criteria have been met: 1) 
the risk of ownership has passed to the buyer; 2) the buyer has made a fixed commitment to 
purchase the goods, preferably in writing; 3) the buyer, and not the seller, has requested that the 
transaction is on a bill and hold basis; 4) there is a fixed schedule for delivery of the goods, 
indicating a delivery date that is reasonable and consistent with the buyer’s business purpose; 5) 
the buyer has not retained any specific performance obligations such that the earnings process is 
not complete; 6) the ordered goods are segregated from the seller’s inventory and is not being 
used to fill other orders; and 7) the product must be complete and ready for shipment.  In 
addition, payment must be received and/or fixed payment dates be agreed with the customer 
pursuant to which the risk of collection is reduced to a minimal level.”  
        
       7.   Contrary to its disclosures and Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), 
BIEL improperly recognized revenue on the two bill and hold transactions. 
        
       8.   BIEL made the first of the two bill and hold transactions pursuant to a distribution 
agreement between BIEL and YesDTC Holdings, Inc. (“YesDTC”), a company owned by an 
individual who had performed strategic consulting services for BIEL.  BIEL entered into a 
distribution agreement with YesDTC on December 31, 2009, the final day of BIEL’s fiscal year.  
This transaction failed to meet the criteria for recognizing revenue for multiple reasons.  First, at 
the time the agreement was entered into and revenue was recognized by BIEL, the sale was not 
final and no fixed commitment to purchase the goods existed because YesDTC had a contractual 
right to cancel the distribution agreement for a period of six months.  Second, YesDTC never met 
the contractual requirement that it obtain regulatory approval to sell BIEL’s products, and, 
resultantly, BIEL would not turn over its product to YesDTC without that approval.  Third, the 
agreement contained no fixed schedule for delivery of the goods.   
        
       9.   The second bill and hold transaction that failed to meet revenue recognition criteria 
involved BIEL and eMarkets Group, LLC (“eMarkets”), a distributor of BIEL products owned by 
the sister of BIEL’s CEO, a related party.  The agreement between BIEL and eMarkets also 
contained no fixed schedule for delivery of the goods.  Also, at the time BIEL recognized revenue 
related to this transaction, certain finishing activities called for under the agreement, such as the 
application of adhesive strips, had not been completed.                
        
       10.  Bedwell was the audit engagement partner responsible for the audit of BIEL’s 
financial statements included in its 2009 10-K. 
        
       11.  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) Auditing Standards require 
an auditor to exercise due professional care in the performance of work.  AU § 150.02, Generally 
Accepted Auditing Standards, states that “due professional care is to be exercised in the 

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

performance of the audit and the preparation of the report.”  Furthermore, “sufficient competent 
evidential matter is to be obtained … to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the 
financial statements under audit.”  AU § 230.06, Due Professional Care in the Performance of 
Work, states: “Auditors should be assigned to tasks and supervised commensurate with their level 
of knowledge, skill, and ability so that they can evaluate the audit evidence they are examining.  
The auditor with final responsibility for the engagement should know, at a minimum, the relevant 
professional accounting and auditing standards and should be knowledgeable about the client.”   
        
       12.  Bedwell did not make himself knowledgeable about the client through his own 
actions or the actions of those who worked under him.  He failed to determine that BIEL was a 
high risk audit client, as was evidenced by the lack of adequate accounting staff, the presence of 
related party transactions, and the hundreds of millions of shares BIEL had issued to the public 
despite its size and the share price.  He further failed to determine that the two bill and hold 
transactions themselves exhibited additional red flags over and above being bill and hold 
transactions: the YesDTC transaction occurred on the final day of the annual reporting period, the 
two transactions amounted to a significant percentage, i.e., 47%, of BIEL’s revenue, and the 
counterparties to BIEL in these transactions were either claimed as a related party in BIEL’s 10-K, 
i.e., eMarkets, or a party that had other dealings with BIEL, i.e., YesDTC through its president, 
who also provided consulting services to BIEL.  Further, he failed to recognize that there was no 
fixed delivery schedule under either the YesDTC or the eMarkets transactions, he failed to observe 
the segregation of inventory related to these bill and hold transactions after he became aware of 
them, and he failed to properly evaluate whether revenue recognition was met, given that BIEL’s 
agreement with YesDTC granted YesDTC a contractual right to cancel that agreement.   
          
       13.  PCAOB Auditing Standards require an auditor to exercise professional skepticism.  
AU § 230.07, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, defines professional skepticism 
as “an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.”  AU § 
230.09, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, states that an “auditor neither assumes 
that management is dishonest nor assumes unquestioned honesty.  In exercising professional 
skepticism, the auditor should not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a 
belief that management is honest.” 
        
       14.    Bedwell’s acceptance of the statements in the bill and hold memorandum, 
particularly the statements concerning the fixed delivery schedules and the completed nature of the 
goods sold, without establishing sufficient independent audit evidence, demonstrates that Bedwell 
failed to exercise the required professional skepticism. 
        
       15.  PCAOB Auditing Standards also require that an auditor obtain sufficient knowledge 
of the audited company to competently plan and perform the audit.  AU § 311.06, Planning and 
Supervision, states: “[T]he auditor should obtain a level of knowledge of the entity's business that 

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

will enable him to plan and perform his audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  That level of knowledge should enable him to obtain an understanding of the events, 
transactions, and practices that, in his judgment, may have a significant effect on the financial 
statements.”  AU § 311.13, Planning and Supervision, states: “[T]he work performed by each 
assistant should be reviewed to determine whether it was adequately performed and to evaluate 
whether the results are consistent with the conclusions to be presented in the auditor's report.” 
        
       16.  As detailed above, Bedwell failed to obtain sufficient knowledge of BIEL, either 
directly or through his assistants, to recognize that it was a high risk client that entered into high 
risk transactions.  His failure to obtain sufficient knowledge resulted in an audit that was 
inadequately planned and executed. 
        
       17.  PCAOB Auditing Standards require that audit conclusions be supported by 
competent evidence.  AU § 326.01, Evidential Matter, states that “[s]ufficient competent evidential 
matter is to be obtained through inspection, observation, inquiries, and confirmations to afford a 
reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit.”  
        
       18.  Examples of Bedwell’s failure to obtain sufficient competent evidence include his 
failure to obtain evidence of a fixed delivery schedule under either bill and hold transaction, his 
failure to obtain evidence that the inventory related to the two bill and hold transactions was 
segregated after the transactions came to light and his failure to establish evidence that the 
YesDTC transaction was final with a fixed commitment to purchase the goods and not cancellable. 
        
       19.  PCAOB Auditing Standards require related party transactions be treated with 
heightened scrutiny.  AU § 334.07, Related Parties, states that an “auditor should place emphasis 
on testing material transactions with parties he knows are related to the reporting entity.”  Further, 
at AU § 334.09, Related Parties, provides specific procedures that should be considered when 
auditing related party transactions including examining “invoices, executed copies of agreements, 
contracts, and other pertinent documents, such as receiving reports and shipping documents” and 
“Test for reasonableness the compilation of amounts to be disclosed, or considered for disclosure, 
in the financial statements.” 
        
       20.  Bedwell failed to follow the PCAOB guidance described in paragraph 19 and to 
properly audit the eMarkets transaction as a related party transaction.    Instead, he relied on the 
representations of management, through the bill and hold memorandum, and eMarkets, the related 
party, through customer confirmations that a fixed delivery schedule had been established, when, 
in fact, none had.  Bedwell also failed to consider additional procedures contained in the standards 
to the eMarkets transaction.   
        
        

                                                 5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                                            Findings 
                                                      
       21.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Bedwell engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Bedwell’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Robert P. Bedwell is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
 
       B.      After two years from the date of this order, Bedwell may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
        
            1.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, of any 
       public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such an 
       application must satisfy the Commission that Bedwell’s work in his practice before the 
       Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public 
       company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices 
       before the Commission in this capacity;  and/or 
        
            2.  an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
        
               (a)    Bedwell, or the public accounting firm with which he is associated, is 
                      registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
                      2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
                
               (b)    Bedwell, or the registered public accounting firm with which he is 
                      associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not 
                      identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Respondent’s or the 
                      firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the respondent will 
                      not receive appropriate supervision; 
                
               (c)    Bedwell has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and has 
                      complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the 
                      Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                
               (d)    Bedwell acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Respondent appears or 
                      practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply 

                                                6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                      with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
                      limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring 
                      partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
       C.      The Commission will consider an application by Bedwell to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and he has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, 
if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Bedwell’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 

                                                7 
 
