---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the  
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79856 / January 23, 2017  
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3854 / January 23, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17806  
                                               CORRECTED ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                                 PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-
                                               AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
      DONALD P. JONES,       CPA              TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Respondent.                                   AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
                                               RULES OF PRACTICE, MAKING 
                                               FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                               SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                               ORDER  
                                          
 
                                            I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Donald P. 
Jones, CPA (“Respondent” or “Jones”) pursuant to Sections 4C1
                                                           and 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice.2
          

                                              
1
      Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
             The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any 
             person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in  any way, if that 
             person is found . . .(1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . 
             (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper 
             professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully  aided and abetted the 
             violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
      Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
             The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
             practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Comm  ission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction  over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondent consents 
to the entry of this Order Instituting  Public Administrative  and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities  Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s  Rules of Practice, Making Findings,  and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-
and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds 3
                                                                                 that: 
 
                                           Summary  
        
       1.     This matter involves  insider trading and tipping  by Donald P. Jones, a certified 
public accountant, in advance of the June 20, 2012 public announcement that Sun Healthcare 
Group,  Inc. (“Sun  Healthcare”) had entered into a definitive  agreement to be acquired by Genesis 
Healthcare, Inc. (“Genesis”)  for approximately  $275 million,  or $8.50 per share.  In early April 
2012, Jones was told material nonpublic information  about the proposed acquisition by Shelly R. 
McGuire, a certified public accountant who was providing professional accounting services to 
Sun Healthcare  during the time of the merger negotiations.   McGuire told Jones the information 
in confidence while seeking his advice about a tax issue impacting the merger.   
 
       2.     Jones and McGuire had a history, pattern, and practice of sharing confidences with 
each other and McGuire expected that Jones would  maintain  the confidentiality  of the information.  
Jones understood that the information was conveyed to him in confidence and that he should not 
trade on it or otherwise tip the information  to others.  However, in breach of a duty of trust or 
confidence owed to McGuire, Jones misappropriated the information  by purchasing shares of Sun 
Healthcare in advance of the public announcement of the merger, and by tipping  the information to 
a friend, who also traded.  Jones realized  illegal profits of $27,675 and his tippee realized illegal 
profits of $11,407.  By engaging in this conduct Jones violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  
 
 
                                                                                                                                                    
              willfully  aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or 
              the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding  
on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                       Respondent 
 
       3.     Donald P. Jones, age 49, is a resident of Alhambra , California,  and is a certified 
public accountant licensed in California  and was a certified public  account licensed in Michigan 
until December 31, 2015.   
  
                           Other Relevant Entities and Individual    
 
       4.     Genesis Healthcare, Inc.  is a privately-held corporation headquartered in Kennett 
Square, Pennsylvania, that operates nursing, long-term  care and assisted living  facilities  across the 
United States.   
 
       5.     Sun Healthcare Group, Inc. formerly headquartered in Irvine, California, operated 
nursing, long-term  care and assisted living  facilities  in the United States.  The company’s stock 
was registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and was traded on the NASDAQ Stock 
Market under the ticker symbol  “SUNH” until  December 1, 2012, when it was acquired by 
Genesis.       
 
       6.     Shelly R. McGuire was, at all relevant times, an account ant employed by an 
accounting firm that was retained by Sun Healthcare  to advise on the transaction with Genesis.   
                                                
                                             Facts 
 
       7.     In September 2011, Genesis and Sun Healthcare entered into a confidentiality 
agreement and began preliminary  discussions concerning a potential business combination. 
 
       8.     In February 2012, Genesis offered to acquire Sun Healthcare  for $8.00 per share. 
Genesis increased its offer to $9.50 per share days before the companies entered into an 
exclusivity   agreement on March 25,  2012.  
 
       9.     After additional due diligence and negotiations occurred during the ensuing weeks,  
Genesis notified Sun Healthcare on May 18, 2012 that it was decreasing its offer to $8.50 per 
share.  
 
       10.    On June 20, 2012, Sun Healthcare’s board of directors voted to accept the revised 
Genesis offer.  After the close of the market that same day, Genesis and Sun Healthcare issued a 
joint  press release announcing the merger agreement.  
 
       11.    During the period leading up to and during the merger negotiations,  McGuire’s 
prior accounting firm (the “Accounting Firm”) was retained by Sun Healthcare to provide auditing, 
tax and other related accounting services.  Specifically, McGuire provided tax related  professional 
accounting services to Sun Healthcare.         
 
       12.    In or around April 5, 2012, Sun Healthcare told McGuire about the ongoing  merger 
discussions  and asked McGuire to provide advice on a tax issue that could impact the terms of a 

                                               3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

merger agreement.   McGuire worked on the tax issue throughout April and May 2012 and 
remained informed about the ongoing merger negotiations.  On June 2, 2012, Sun Healthcare 
informed McGuire that the announcement of the acquisition was imminent. 
 
       13.    McGuire and Jones knew each other for several years, mutually  owned and 
operated a separate business  together, and had a close personal relationship.  At all relevant times, 
McGuire and Jones had a history, pattern, and practice of sharing confidences with each other, 
including  confidential personal and work related information.  Shortly  after being tasked with 
analyzing the tax issue for Sun Healthcare in or around April 5, 2012, McGuire told Jones about 
the ongoing merger negotiations while soliciting his advice on the tax issue.  McGuire continued to 
consult with Jones on the tax issue during the period leading up to the June 20, 2012 merger 
announcement.  McGuire  expected that Jones would maintain the confidentiality  of the merger 
discussions.  
 
       14.    Jones knew that the information  that McGuire disclosed to him concerning the 
merger negotiations  was confidential  and that he should not trade on the information, or 
otherwise tip the information  to others.     
 
       15.    However, based on the material nonpublic  information that he received from 
McGuire, between April 20, 2012 and April 24, 2012, Jones purchased 8,200 shares of Sun 
Healthcare at an average price of $6.75 per share, and on June 4, 2012, Jones purchased an 
additional 4,200 shares of Sun Healthcare at an average price of $4.66 per share.   
 
       16.    Jones also received a benefit when he tipped  the merger information   to a friend 
who then purchased 6 ,000 shares of Sun Healthcare common stock between April 24, 2012 and 
June 14, 2012.   
 
       17.    By purchasing Sun Healthcare securities and tipping  material nonpublic 
information  about the merger negotiations  to a friend, Jones misappropriated  the information  and 
breached a duty of trust or confidence he owed to McGuire.  Others who traded in Sun 
Healthcare securities at the same time as Jones and his tippee were harmed by the advantageous 
market positions  Jones and his tippee gained through  Jones’ use of material nonpublic 
information. 
               
       18.    Jones knew or was reckless in not knowing that his purchases of Sun Healthcare 
common stock and tipping  of material nonpublic  information  concerning the merger negotiations 
were in breach of the duty of trust or confidence that he owed to McGuire.   
 
       19.    After the close of business on June 20, 2012, Sun Healthcare and Genesis jointly 
announced a definitive agreement  in which Sun Healthcare agreed to be acquired by Genesis. 
The following  day, Sun Healthcare’s stock price closed at $8.40 per share, a 36.82 percent 
increase from the previous day’s closing price of $6.14 per share.   
 
       20.    On June 21, 2012, Jones sold all 12,400 of his Sun Healthcare shares, realizing 
illegal profits of $27,675.   Jones’ tippee realized illegal profits of $11,407.    

                                              4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
                                          Findings  
 
       21.    Based on the foregoing,  the Commission  finds that Jones willfully  violated 
Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, which prohibit fraudulent conduct 
in connection with the purchase or sale of securities.   
        
       22.    Based on the forgoing,  the Commission  finds that Jones engaged in conduct 
within the meaning of Section 4(C)(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii)  of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
 
                                            IV. 
                                               
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose  the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Jones’ Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately,   that: 
 
       A.     Respondent Jones shall cease and desist from committing  or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. 
 
       B.     Respondent Jones is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission  as an accountant. 
 
       C.     Respondent Jones shall, within 10 days of entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of  
$39,082, prejudgment interest thereon of $4,530, and a civil  money penalty of $39,082, for a total of 
$82,694 to the Securities and Exchange Commission  for transfer to the general fund of the United 
States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely  payment of disgorgement and 
prejudgment interest is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 
600, and if timely payment of a civil money penalty is not made, additional interest shall accrue 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.    
 
Payment must be made in one of the following  ways:   
 
              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                     will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               
              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
               
              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               

                                              5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

              Enterprise Services Center  
              Accounts Receivable Branch  
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City,  OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Donald P. Jones as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to G. Jeffrey Boujoukos, Associate 
Regional Direct or, Philadelphia Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 1617 JFK 
Boulevard, Suite 520, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.   
 
       D.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including  all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil  penalty, Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, he shall not argue that he is entitled to, nor shall he benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil 
penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Resp ondent agrees that he shall,  within  30 days after entry of a final order granting 
the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed 
an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
private damages action brought against Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based 
on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
                                             V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings  in this Order are true and admitted  by 
Respondent, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other 
amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree 
or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation  by 
Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set 
forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                  Brent J. Fields 
                                                  Secretary 
 

                                              6  
