---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                               Before the  
                          SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  
Release No. 78393 / July 22, 2016 

ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3790 / July 22, 2016 

ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17356 

                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                  ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                                  PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C 
       EFP ROTENBERG, LLP and                     AND 21C OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
            NICHOLAS BOTTINI, CPA,                ACT OF 1934, AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                  COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       Respondents.                               MAKING FINDINGS, IMPOSING REMEDIAL 
                                                  SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST 
                                                  ORDER. 
 

 

                                                    I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
                                                                                                        1
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 4C    
and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of   1934 (“Exchange Act”), and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of 
                                    2
the Commission’s Rules of Practice  against Nicholas Bottini (“Bottini”) and EFP Rotenberg, LLP 
(“EFP Rotenberg”). 

                                                 
1
    Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  “The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or 
permanently, to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found 
. . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.” 
2
    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: “The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper 
professional conduct.” Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: “The Commission may censure a person or deny, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before it to any person who is found…to have willfully 
violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules or regulations 
thereunder.” 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                    II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini have submitted 
Offers of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the Commission, or 
to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings herein, except as to 
the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these proceedings, which are 
admitted, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini, except as provided herein in Section V, consent to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 
21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below. 

                                                    III. 

                                                                                                       3
       On the basis of this Order and EFP Rotenberg’s and Bottini’s Offers, the Commission finds         that  

                                                 Summary 

       1.      This matter concerns violations of the federal securities laws and improper professional 
conduct by EFP Rotenberg and Bottini in connection with the audit of the financial statements of 
ContinuityX Solutions, Inc. (“ContinuityX”).  After incorporating, ContinuityX filed one Form 10-K 
with the Commission, which was its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2012 (“2012 Form 
10-K”).  EFP Rotenberg acted as the auditor of the financial statements included in the 2012 Form 10-K 
(the “ContinuityX Audit”).  Bottini was the engagement partner for the ContinuityX Audit. 

                                         4
       2.      EFP Rotenberg willfully     violated and Bottini willfully aided and abetted and caused EFP 
Rotenberg’s violations of Section 10A(a) of the Exchange Act when it conducted the ContinuityX Audit 
without including procedures which were designed to: (1) provide reasonable assurance of detecting 
illegal acts; and (2) identify related party transactions. 

       3.      Additionally, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to comply with the standards of the 
                                                5
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board         (“PCAOB”).  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini repeatedly 
engaged in improper professional conduct that resulted in violations of professional standards and 
demonstrated a lack of competence to practice before the Commission.  Specifically, during the 
ContinuityX Audit, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to: (1) appropriately respond to risks of material 
misstatement; (2) identify related party transactions; (3) obtain sufficient audit evidence; (4) perform 
procedures to resolve and properly document inconsistencies; (5) investigate management 
representations that contradicted other audit evidence; and (6) exercise due professional care.  

                                                 
3
 The findings herein are made pursuant to EFP Rotenberg’s and Bottini’s Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
4
 A willful violation of the securities laws means “no more than that the person charged with the duty knows what he is 
doing.”  Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 
1949)). 
5
 All references in this Order to standards issued by the PCAOB are to those standards that were in effect at the time of the 
relevant conduct. 

                                                      2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Additionally, EFP Rotenberg failed to maintain adequate policies and procedures regarding 
documentation. 

       4.     Finally, EFP Rotenberg willfully violated and Bottini willfully aided and abetted and 
caused EFP Rotenberg’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X when it stated that the 
ContinuityX Audit had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards, when it was not.  Bottini 
caused this violation by approving the issuance of the ContinuityX audit report, the audit of which he 
failed to conduct in accordance with PCAOB standards. 

                                             Respondents 

       5.     EFP Rotenberg, LLP is a PCAOB registered accounting firm based in Rochester, NY. 
On July 1, 2014, the Commission censured and fined EFP Rotenberg for its part in the audit of Universal 
Travel Group.  See In the Matter of EFP Rotenberg, LLP and Nicholas R. Bottini, Exchange Act Rel. 
No. 72503 (July 1, 2014).     

       6.     Nicholas Bottini, age 54, was the engagement partner on the ContinuityX Audit.  Bottini 
was a partner in EFP Rotenberg’s public company auditing group, and also served on various 
committees within the firm.  Bottini was dismissed for cause from EFP Rotenberg on March 5, 2014.  
On July 1, 2014, Bottini was suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant with the right to apply for reinstatement after two years and ordered to pay a $25,000 civil 
penalty for his actions as part of EFP Rotenberg’s audit of Universal Travel Group.  See Exchange Act 
Rel. No. 72503 (July 1, 2014). 

                                            Relevant Party 

       7.     ContinuityX Solutions, Inc. was a Delaware corporation headquartered in Metamora, 
IL.  ContinuityX was formed in March 2011 and filed for bankruptcy in February 2013.  It is currently 
under the control of a chapter 7 bankruptcy trustee.  Its common stock was registered with the 
Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and was quoted on the OTC Link operated by 
                                                       6
OTC Markets Group, Inc. under the symbol “CUSXQ.”   On June 5, 2014, an indictment was filed in 
the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, United States of America v. David Godwin, 
et al., No 1:14-cr-00326 (N.D. Ill), for violation of Title 18, USC, Section 1343, alleging multiple counts 
of fraud against David P. Godwin (“Godwin”), the former CEO, president, and chairman of 
ContinuityX, and John Coletti (“Coletti”), a former sales representative of ContinuityX.  On September 
30, 2015, the Commission charged Godwin and Anthony G. Roth (“Roth”), ContinuityX’s former Chief 
Financial Officer, with engineering a fraudulent scheme to inflate the company’s revenues.  See U.S. 
Securities and Exchange Commission v. David P. Godwin and Anthony G. Roth, No. 25-cv-1414 (C.D. 
Ill. September 30, 2015).  On December 10, 2015, a grand jury convened in the Northern District of 
Illinois returned a superseding indictment charging Roth with multiple counts of wire fraud in violation 
of Title 18, USC, Section 1343.  Additional wire fraud counts against Godwin were also included in the 
superseding indictment.   

                                                 
6
 On September 30, 2015, the Commission issued an order revoking ContinuityX’s securities pursuant to Section 12(j) of the 
Exchange Act.  In the Matter of ContinuityX Solutions, Inc., Exchange Act Rel. No. 76028 (Sept. 30, 2015). 

                                                   3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                             Background 

       8.     ContinuityX’s business was primarily to serve as a commission-based sales agent, selling 
enterprise internet services provided by “Internet Provider A” and “Internet Provider B” (collectively 
“Internet Providers”).  Pursuant to agreements with ContinuityX, the Internet Providers would pay a 
commission to ContinuityX each time ContinuityX arranged for a customer to purchase internet services 
from the Internet Providers. 

       9.     ContinuityX filed its 2012 Form 10-K on September 28, 2012.  In its 2012 Form 10-K, 
ContinuityX reported revenue of $18.6 million.  Nearly all of this revenue was derived from purported 
commissions from the Internet Providers. 

       10.    EFP Rotenberg acted as ContinuityX’s auditor and issued an audit report containing an 
unqualified opinion.  Bottini was the engagement partner.  Bottini supervised several employees of EFP 
Rotenberg as part of the ContinuityX Audit.  Included in the 2012 Form 10-K was EFP Rotenberg’s 
audit report in which it stated that it conducted the ContinuityX Audit in accordance with the auditing 
standards of the PCAOB. 

       11.    On December 13, 2012, ContinuityX filed a Form 8-K that stated it had been sued by 
Internet Provider A to recoup commissions associated with the sale of internet services to certain 
customers who failed to make payments for the services and stated that previously issued financial 
statements and audit reports could no longer be relied upon. 

       12.    On January 31, 2013, ContinuityX filed a Form 8-K that stated its Board of Directors had 
removed the company’s chief executive officer and the company had recently become aware of “the 
existence of substantial financial irregularities including, but not limited to, potential forgeries of 
purchase orders, emails and other documents.” 

       13.    On February 13, 2013, ContinuityX filed for chapter 11 bankruptcy in the Southern 
District of New York.  Later, ContinuityX’s bankruptcy proceeding was involuntarily converted to a 
chapter 7 proceeding, and the company was placed under the control of a chapter 7 trustee.   

       14.    ContinuityX’s 2012 Form 10-K contained several material misstatements and omissions 
of material fact, including: (1) grossly overstating revenue by improperly recognizing commissions from 
fraudulent transactions; (2) failing to disclose related party transactions; (3) overstating assets by 
recognizing third party assets as its own; (3) falsely stating that Internet Provider A was not able to 
charge back previously paid commissions; and (4) failing to recognize revenue from the Internet 
Providers in accordance with their contractual agreements. 

 EFP Rotenberg and Bottini Did Not Plan or Perform Procedures Designed to Detect Illegal Acts 
                                           Including Fraud 

       15.    Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act requires that the audit of the financial statements 
of an issuer by a registered public accounting firm shall include procedures designed to provide 
reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and material effect on the 
determination of financial statement amounts.  No showing of scienter is necessary to establish a 
violation of Section 10A.  See SEC v. Solucorp Indus., Ltd., 197 F. Supp. 2d 4 (S.D.N.Y. 2002). 

                                                   4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       16.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 13, The Auditor’s Responses to the Risks of Material 
Misstatement (“AS No. 13”), states “the auditor should design and perform audit procedures in a manner 
that addresses the assessed risks of material misstatement for each relevant assertion of each significant 
account and disclosure” (¶ 8).  AS No.13 also states that “[f]or significant risks, the auditor should 
perform substantive procedures, including tests of details, that are specifically responsive to the assessed 
risks” (¶ 11).  PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 12, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material 
Misstatement, states that a fraud risk is a significant risk (¶ 71).  Thus, PCAOB Audit Standards required 
EFP Rotenberg and Bottini to perform substantive audit procedures specifically designed to be 
responsive to fraud risk. 

       17.    During the planning of the ContinuityX Audit, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini deemed 
accounts receivable, revenue, and security deposits as areas of the audit with a significant risk of fraud.  
In response to this identified risk, to comply with Section 10A(a)(1) and AS No. 13, EFP Rotenberg and 
Bottini should have included as part of the ContinuityX Audit procedures designed to address the risk of 
material misstatement due to fraud on the determination of the amounts in these accounts. 

       18.    In addition to deeming certain areas of the ContinuityX Audit as a significant risk, EFP 
Rotenberg and Bottini were also on notice of potential irregularities in ContinuityX’s accounting.  
During the ContinuityX Audit, ContinuityX’s management attempted to limit the scope of EFP 
Rotenberg’s procedures to obtain sufficient audit evidence on accounts receivable.  Specifically, EFP 
Rotenberg and Bottini requested that ContinuityX’s management prepare accounts receivable 
confirmations for the Internet Providers.  ContinuityX’s management refused to prepare and sign the 
confirmations.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini acquiesced to ContinuityX’s management’s scope limitation 
and instead spoke to people purporting to be employees of the Internet Providers.  However, the 
engagement team failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence over the existence of accounts receivable. 

       19.    EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not plan or perform procedures to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence that ContinuityX’s revenue was legitimate or that it was being recognized 
correctly.  During the ContinuityX Audit, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini obtained signed agreements 
between ContinuityX and the Internet Providers’ customers that showed that the customers who 
purchased internet services via ContinuityX did not intend to use or pay for the internet services.  These 
agreements stated that the customers: (1) were not responsible for paying for the internet services they 
purchased from the Internet Providers; (2) ContinuityX was responsible for paying the Internet 
Providers for the customers’ monthly internet service bills; and (3) Continuity X would pay the 
customers a one-time commission.  In short, these agreements, when read in light of the agreements 
between ContinuityX and the Internet Providers, showed that ContinuityX would pay the customers a 
kick-back for purchasing internet services so that ContinuityX could earn a commission from the 
Internet Providers. 

       20.    ContinuityX received commission payments from the Internet Providers based on the 
fraudulent sales.  Under Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), revenue is recognized 
when it is realized or realizable and earned. There must be persuasive evidence that an actual 
                                                                                                 7
arrangement exists and that the parties are committed to performing their respective obligations.  Here, 
these agreements clearly showed that the customers had no intention of performing their obligations to 

                                                 
7
 See, A.S.C. 605-10-25-1, See, also, FASB Statement of Concepts No. 5, Recognition and Measurement in Financial 
Statements of Business Enterprises; Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 104. 

                                                    5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

the Internet Providers.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to perform sufficient procedures to detect these 
fraudulent sales despite possessing all of the documents necessary to identify them.  Furthermore, EFP 
Rotenberg and Bottini failed to design or perform sufficient substantive procedures to determine if 
ContinuityX’s revenue was legitimately earned. 

       21.    Internet Provider A required that its customers pay security deposits.  ContinuityX paid 
the security deposits on behalf of its customers and the deposits were held by Internet Provider A in the 
name of the customers.  When the customers did not pay their bills, Internet Provider A applied the 
security deposits to the past due account balance.  ContinuityX recorded the security deposits as its own 
assets.  In its 2012 Form 10-K ContinuityX reported $2.1 million of security deposits as an asset.  
ContinuityX should not have recorded the security deposits as an asset. 

       22.    EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not plan or perform procedures to evaluate whether 
ContinuityX had the rights to or ownership of the security deposits.  During the ContinuityX Audit, 
ContinuityX’s management represented to EFP Rotenberg and Bottini that the security deposits held by 
Internet Provider A were ContinuityX’s assets.  To support this assertion ContinuityX’s management 
provided EFP Rotenberg and Bottini with cashier’s checks drawn from ContinuityX’s bank account.  
However, the cashier’s checks had the customer listed as the remitter.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini 
accepted the cashier’s checks as evidence of ContinuityX’s ownership of the security deposits and did 
not question why ContinuityX was using cashier’s checks to pay security deposits or why a check drawn 
from ContinuityX’s bank would list the customer as the remitter.  Furthermore, in an email 
correspondence with Internet Provider A, Bottini was told that Internet Provider A held the security 
deposits for the customers.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to take further steps or perform additional 
procedures after being told by Internet Provider A that the security deposits were ContinuityX 
customers’ deposits, and not ContinuityX’s.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to resolve inconsistencies 
in the audit evidence obtained to become reasonably assured that ContinuityX was properly recording 
the security deposits as assets. 

       23.    Based on the foregoing, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini’s did not plan or perform sufficient 
procedures to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts that would have a direct and 
material effect on the determination of ContinuityX’s financial statement amounts, as required by 
Section 10A(a)(1) of the Exchange Act.  This was demonstrated by EFP Rotenberg and Bottini’s failure 
to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that was responsive to the significant risks identified by 
the engagement team.  Specifically, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to perform sufficient alternative 
procedures after management refused to prepare accounts receivable confirmations.  Furthermore, 
despite possessing information that contradicted management’s assertions, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini 
failed to resolve inconsistencies in the audit evidence.  As a result, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to 
identify ContinuityX’s improper revenue recognition and the inclusion of customer security deposits as 
company assets. 

EFP Rotenberg and Bottini Failed to Perform Procedures to Identify Related Party Transactions 

       24.    Section 10A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act requires that the audit of the financial statements 
of an issuer by a registered public accounting firm shall include procedures designed to identify related 
party transactions that are material to the financial statements or otherwise require disclosure therein. 

                                                   6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       25.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 334, Related Parties (“AU Section 334”), provides 
guidance on procedures to identify related party relationships and transactions and to satisfy the auditor 
concerning the required disclosure of related party transactions.  The guidance in AU Section 334 for 
identifying material transactions that may be indicative of the existence of previously undetermined 
relationships includes that the auditor “[r]eview the extent and nature of business transacted with major 
customers, suppliers, borrowers, and lenders for indications of previously undisclosed relationships” (at 
.08 (e)).  Additionally, AU Section 334 requires that an “auditor should view related party transactions 
within the framework of existing [accounting] pronouncements, placing primary emphasis on the 
adequacy of disclosure” (at .02), and the auditor should satisfy himself on the basis of his professional 
judgement that the transaction has been adequately disclosed in the financial statements (at .11). 

       26.    EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not perform sufficient procedures designed to identify 
related party transactions.  ContinuityX was involved in transactions with certain customers that should 
have been disclosed as related party transactions.  However, in its financial statements included in its 
2012 Form 10-K, ContinuityX did not disclose these related party transactions. 

       27.    EFP Rotenberg and Bottini possessed documents in which the CFO of ContinuityX 
signed internet service agreements and a security deposit agreement on behalf of a customer named 
AARMG, LLC.  During the ContinuityX Audit, the audit manager sent an email to ContinuityX 
management and Bottini that noted the CFO signed an internet service contract on behalf of AARMG 
and inquired if AARMG was a related party.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to obtain an answer 
from ContinuityX management and to conduct additional procedures to determine if AARMG was a 
related party.  ContinuityX recognized $695,000 in commission revenue purportedly earned from sales 
to AARMG.  However, the AARMG transactions were not disclosed in the financial statements included 
in its 2012 Form 10-K as related party transactions. 

       28.    In April 2012, ContinuityX hired the owners and principals of two of ContinuityX’s 
customers (“Customer A and Customer B”), and then later purchased Customer A and Customer B 
outright.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini documented in the ContinuityX Audit preliminary analytical 
review workpaper that ContinuityX hired Customer A’s and Customer B’s owners.  However, EFP 
Rotenberg and Bottini failed to identify the sales to Customer A and Customer B as related party 
transactions during revenue testing even though sales to Customer A and Customer B were selected for 
testing.   ContinuityX recognized more than $8 million in commission revenue (43% of total revenue) 
purportedly earned from sales to Customer A and Customer B.  However, the transactions with 
Customer A or Customer B were not disclosed in the financial statements included in its 2012 Form 10-
K as related party transactions. 

       29.    EFP Rotenberg willfully violated and Bottini willfully aided and abetted and caused EFP 
Rotenberg’s violations of Section 10A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and failed to comply with AU Section 
334 because it did not conduct procedures after it identified possible related party transactions to “obtain 
satisfaction concerning the purpose, nature, and extent of these transactions and their effect on the 
financial statements” (AU Section 334 at .09).  The related party transactions with AARMG, Customer 
A, and Customer B were not disclosed in the financial statements included in its ContinuityX’s 2012 
Form 10-K. 

                                                  7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 EFP Rotenberg and Bottini Failed to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence to Support 
                                          the Audit Opinion 

       30.    PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 15, Audit Evidence (“AS No. 15”), requires the auditor to 
“plan and perform audit procedures to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a 
reasonable basis for his or her opinion” (¶ 4). 

       31.    EFP Rotenberg issued an audit report containing an unqualified opinion and Bottini 
approved the issuance of the audit report.  However, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for this opinion.  Specifically, EFP 
Rotenberg and Bottini did not obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to support management’s 
assertions regarding ContinuityX’s recognition of revenue and security deposits.  Additionally, EFP 
Rotenberg and Bottini failed to obtain sufficient audit evidence that ContinuityX’s revenue recognition 
policy was consistent with the terms and conditions of ContinuityX’s agreements with the Internet 
Providers. 

       32.    ContinuityX reported $18.6 million in commission revenue purportedly earned from the 
Internet Providers.  However, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not obtain sufficient evidence to support 
the revenue recognized.  In fact, the evidence that EFP Rotenberg and Bottini obtained supported a 
conclusion that ContinuityX should not have recognized any of these commission payments.  
Specifically, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini obtained agreements which showed that ContinuityX’s 
customers had no intention of paying for or using the internet services.  Thus, under GAAP, the revenue 
from these transactions should not have been recognized.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to properly 
evaluate these customer agreements despite the fact that accounts receivable and revenue were deemed 
significant risk areas.  They recalculated the commission payments paid to the customers and failed to 
appreciate the significance of the terms of the agreements.  ContinuityX recognized $18.6 million in 
revenue (over 99.8% of ContinuityX’s total revenue) that it had not earned. 

       33.    In the 2012 Form 10-K, ContinuityX reported $2.1 million in security deposits as assets.  
These security deposits were not an asset of ContinuityX and should not have been recorded as such.  
EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not obtain any evidence, other than ContinuityX management’s 
representations, that ContinuityX had the rights to or ownership of the security deposits. 

       34.    ContinuityX entered into an agreement with Internet Provider A which specifically 
outlined how and when ContinuityX would earn its commission.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini were 
provided a copy of this agreement and maintained it in the workpapers.  This agreement stated that 
Internet Provider A could charge back ContinuityX when customers failed to pay for their internet 
services.  However, ContinuityX’s management told Bottini that Internet Provider A could not charge 
back commissions.  Despite possessing the agreement with Internet Provider A that directly contradicted 
ContinuityX’s management’s representation, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not perform sufficient 
additional procedures to resolve the inconsistent evidence.  As a result of EFP Rotenberg and Bottini’s 
failure to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence, they failed to detect that the statement that “in 
these lump-sum compensation arrangements, the customer may not claw back – unreasonably withhold 
– or transfer these orders and must pay the Company per agreement” in the ContinuityX Form 10-K for 
2012 was false. 

                                                   8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

       35.    ContinuityX’s revenue recognition policy for sales to Internet Provider A was based on 
the erroneous premise that Internet Provider A was not able to charge back commissions.  Internet 
Provider A’s ability to charge back commissions was not consistent with ContinuityX’s policy of 
recognizing 100% of its commission revenue upfront.  Instead, ContinuityX should have recognized the 
revenue over the life of the contract as it was earned, or set up a reserve account to offset potential 
chargebacks.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to 
support management’s assertion that ContinuityX could recognize 100% of the commission revenue 
upfront.  In fact, the agreement included in the audit documentation stated that Internet Provider A could 
charge back commissions. 

       36.    ContinuityX and Internet Provider B also entered into an agreement which outlined how 
and when ContinuityX would earn commissions.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini received a copy of this 
agreement and maintained it in the workpapers.  The agreement with Internet Provider B stated that 
Internet Provider B would pay ContinuityX a commission on a monthly pro rata basis after the customer 
had paid Internet Provider B for the internet services.  ContinuityX’s revenue recognition policy was 
consistent with the terms of the agreement with Internet Provider B.  However, ContinuityX did not 
recognize revenue in accordance with its agreement with Internet Provider B or its own revenue 
recognition policy.  Instead of recognizing the commissions monthly on a pro rata basis, ContinuityX 
recognized 100% of the commission after the customer had signed the sales contract.  When EFP 
Rotenberg and Bottini inquired about the discrepancy, ContinuityX’s management stated that the terms 
of the agreement with Internet Provider B had changed.  In fact, ContinuityX and Internet Provider B 
never changed the terms of their agreement.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini never requested nor received 
documentation to support this purported change.  Despite possessing the agreement that contradicted 
ContinuityX management’s representation, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to obtain sufficient 
appropriate evidence to support the revenue recognized from Internet Provider B. 

EFP Rotenberg and Bottini Failed to Perform Procedures to Resolve Inconsistencies and Failed to 
                       Document Findings that Contradicted its Conclusions 

       37.    AS No. 15 states that “[i]f audit evidence obtained from one source is inconsistent with 
that obtained from another, or if the auditor has doubts about the reliability of information to be used as 
audit evidence, the auditor should perform the audit procedures necessary to resolve the matter and 
should determine the effect, if any, on other aspects of the audit” (¶ 29).  PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 
3, Audit Documentation (“AS No. 3”), states that “audit documentation must include information the 
auditor has identified relating to significant findings or issues that is inconsistent with or contradicts the 
auditor’s final conclusions.  The relevant records to be retained include, but are not limited to, 
procedures performed in response to the information…” (¶ 8). 

       38.    EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to comply with AS No. 15 and AS No. 3 because they 
failed to perform sufficient audit procedures necessary to resolve inconsistencies between ContinuityX 
management’s representations and the terms in ContinuityX’s agreements with the Internet Providers.  
Additionally, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to document the inconsistencies or the procedures 
performed in response to the inconsistent information and how the inconsistencies were resolved. 

       39.    ContinuityX’s management told EFP Rotenberg and Bottini that Internet Provider A was 
not able to charge back commissions purportedly earned by ContinuityX.  ContinuityX management’s 
representation was false and EFP Rotenberg and Bottini obtained documents that were inconsistent with 

                                                   9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

management’s representation.  However, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not sufficiently resolve the 
inconsistency between management’s representation and the underlying documents or document this 
inconsistency. 

       40.    ContinuityX’s management also told EFP Rotenberg and Bottini that Internet Provider B 
paid ContinuityX 100% of its commission when Internet Provider B approved a customer’s contract.  
ContinuityX recognized 100% of the commission revenue from Internet Provider B upfront, instead of 
                                                                          8
monthly over the life of the internet service contract as required by GAAP. ContinuityX’s 
management’s representation was false.  During the ContinuityX Audit, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini 
obtained ContinuityX’s agreement with Internet Provider B that stated commissions were paid monthly 
and only after the customer had paid for the internet services.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not 
sufficiently resolve the inconsistency between management’s representation and the underlying 
agreement or document this inconsistency. 

       41.    ContinuityX’s management also represented to EFP Rotenberg and Bottini that certain 
customers resold the internet services.  If EFP Rotenberg and Bottini would have reviewed the 
agreements between ContinuityX and the Internet Providers in any detail, it would have learned that 
ContinuityX was required to receive authorization from the Internet Providers prior to selling to 
companies that resold the internet services.  ContinuityX never received authorization to sell to 
companies that resold internet services.  Furthermore, during the ContinuityX Audit, an employee from 
Internet Provider A informed Bottini that ContinuityX’s customer base did not include any companies 
authorized to resell the internet services.  However, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini never sufficiently 
resolved the inconsistency between representations from management and the employee of Internet 
Provider A or documented this contradiction. 

       42.    ContinuityX’s management also told EFP Rotenberg and Bottini that the security 
deposits held by the Internet Providers were an asset of ContinuityX.  However, an employee of Internet 
Provider A told Bottini that the security deposits were held in the customers’ names, and not 
ContinuityX’s.  EFP Rotenberg and Bottini never documented or sufficiently resolved these inconsistent 
statements. 

        EFP Rotenberg and Bottini Improperly Relied on Management’s Representations 

       43.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 333, Management Representations, (“AU Section 333”) 
states that representations from a company’s management “are part of the evidential matter the 
independent auditor obtains, but they are not a substitute for the application of those auditing procedures 
necessary to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion regarding the financial statements under audit” (at 
.02).  AU Section 333 also states that “[i]f a representation made by management is contradicted by 
other audit evidence, the auditor should investigate the circumstances and consider the reliability of the 
representation made.  Based on the circumstances, the auditor should consider whether his or her 
reliance on management’s representations relating to other aspects of the financial statements is 
appropriate and justified” (at .04). 

       44.    EFP Rotenberg and Bottini violated AU Section 333 because they improperly relied on 
ContinuityX management’s representations.  ContinuityX’s agreements with the Internet Providers 

                                                 
8
    A.S.C. 605-10-25 

                                                  10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

contradicted management’s representations regarding chargebacks, security deposits, revenue 
recognition, and ContinuityX’s sales of internet services to companies that supposedly resold those 
services.  AU Section 333 requires conflicts between management representations and other audit 
evidence to be investigated.  However, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini did not perform the audit procedures 
necessary to resolve these conflicts. 

               EFP Rotenberg and Bottini Failed to Exercise Due Professional Care 

       45.    PCAOB Standard AU Section 230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work 
(“AU Section 230”), states that auditors are required to exercise due professional care throughout the 
audit.  Due professional care requires that the auditor exercise professional skepticism.  Under this 
standard, “[p]rofessional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical 
assessment of audit evidence” (at .07), and auditors “consider the competency and sufficiency of the 
evidence” (at .08) and “neither assume[] that management is dishonest nor assume[] unquestioned 
honesty” (at .09). 

       46.    For the reasons outlined above, EFP Rotenberg and Bottini failed to meet AU Section 
230 by violating AS No. 3, AS No. 13, AS No. 15, AU Section 333, and AU Section 334. 

                     EFP Rotenberg’s Policies and Procedures were Deficient 

       47.    PCAOB Quality Control Section 20, System of Quality Control for a CPA Firm’s 
Accounting and Auditing Practice, (“QC Section 20”) requires that, “Policies and procedures should be 
established to provide the firm with reasonable assurance that the work performed by engagement 
personnel meets applicable professional standards, regulatory requirements, and the firm’s standards of 
quality” (at .17). 

       48.    EFP Rotenberg failed to comply with QC Section 20 because its inadequate policies and 
procedures did not provide reasonable assurance that the work it performed during the ContinuityX 
Audit met professional standards.  Specifically, EFP Rotenberg’s policies and procedures regarding the 
documentation of the review of material contracts were inadequate.  EFP Rotenberg required that 
material contracts were to be obtained, reviewed by a manager or partner of the engagement team, 
maintained in the workpapers, and signed off as “reviewed” on the Supervision, Review and Approval 
Form.  However, the manager or partner who reviewed the documents was not required to document 
their review of the individual documents in the workpapers. 

       49.    EFP Rotenberg’s policies and procedures also failed to comply with AS No. 3.  The 
documentation was not sufficient “to determine who performed the work and the date such work was 
complete as well as the person who reviewed the work and the date of such review” (¶ 6b). 

       50.    EFP Rotenberg’s deficient policies and procedures contributed to EFP Rotenberg and 
Bottini’s failures during the audit.  During the ContinuityX Audit, the lack of sign-offs caused the audit 
team members to wrongly believe that other individuals had properly reviewed the agreements with the 
Internet Providers and the customers.  As a result, the manager and Bottini documented that all material 
contracts had been properly reviewed when they had not.  The engagement quality reviewer relied on 
this documentation to satisfy herself that all of the material contracts had been reviewed by the proper 
personnel. 

                                                  11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                     EFP Rotenberg Violated Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X 

       51.    Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires that an accountant’s audit report “state 
whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. . . .” 17 C.F.R. 
210.2-02(b)(1).  As used in Commission regulations, the phrase “generally accepted auditing standards” 
includes the standards issued by the PCAOB. 

       52.    After performing the ContinuityX Audit, EFP Rotenberg issued a report that stated it had 
conducted the audit in accordance with PCAOB auditing standards.  Bottini approved the issuance of the 
ContinuityX audit report.  Based on the foregoing, that representation was false. 

       53.    As a result of this misrepresentation EFP Rotenberg willfully violated and Bottini 
willfully aided and abetted and caused EFP Rotenberg’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-
X. 

                                              Violations 

       54.    Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act: An auditor violates Section 
10A(a) of the Exchange Act by failing to include audit procedures that, in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards, are:  (1) designed to provide reasonable assurance of detecting illegal acts 
that would have a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement amounts, and; 
(2) designed to identify related party transactions that are material to the financial statements or 
otherwise require disclosure therein. 

       55.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii):  Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides 
that the Commission may deny the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to any 
person who is found to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Specifically, EFP Rotenberg 
and Bottini engaged in improper professional conduct as defined in Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2), i.e., 
negligent conduct consisting of repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation 
of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission. 

       56.    Rule 102(e)(1)(iii): Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides 
that the Commission may deny the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission to any 
person found “[t]o have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision 
of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.” 

       57.    Rule 2-02(b)(1):  An auditor violates Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X by issuing a 
report stating that an audit was conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards, when it was not. 

                                               Findings 

       58.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that EFP Rotenberg and Bottini engaged 
in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                  12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       59.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that EFP Rotenberg willfully violated and 
Bottini willfully aided and abetted and caused EFP Rotenberg’s violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and 
10A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act. 

       60.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that EFP Rotenberg willfully violated and 
Bottini willfully aided and abetted and caused EFP Rotenberg’s violations of Rule 2-02(b)(1) of 
Regulation S-X. 

                                 EFP Rotenberg’s Remedial Efforts 

       61.    In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by EFP Rotenberg and cooperation afforded the Commission staff. 

                                                 IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions agreed to 
in EFP Rotenberg’s and Bottini’s Offers. 

       Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act, and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 
(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.     EFP Rotenberg and Bottini shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 10A(a)(1) and 10A(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
2-02(b)(1) under Regulation S-X (17 C.F.R. §210.2-02). 

       B.     EFP Rotenberg is censured. 

       C.     EFP Rotenberg will not accept an audit engagement from any new client (i) registered 
with the Commission or (ii) seeking an audit for the purpose of registering securities with the 
Commission (together, “New Clients”) between the date of entry of this Order and the later of twelve 
months or the date that an independent consultant, described in paragraph C.1. below, certifies in writing 
that the undertakings discussed herein have been completed to the satisfaction of the independent 
consultant, as described in paragraph C.e.3. below: 

              1.     Independent Consultant. 

                      a.     EFP Rotenberg will retain an independent consultant (“Independent 
                             Consultant”), not unacceptable to the Commission staff.  EFP Rotenberg 
                             shall provide to the Commission staff a copy of the engagement letter 
                             detailing the scope of the Independent Consultant’s responsibilities.  The 
                             Independent Consultant’s compensation and expenses shall be borne 
                             exclusively by EFP Rotenberg. 

                      b.     To ensure the independence of the Independent Consultant, EFP 
                             Rotenberg: (1) shall not have the authority to terminate the Independent 
                             Consultant or substitute another independent compliance consultant for the 
                             initial Independent Consultant, without the prior written approval of the 
                             Commission staff; and (2) shall compensate the Independent Consultant 

                                                  13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                              and persons engaged to assist the Independent Consultant for services 
                              rendered pursuant to this Order at their reasonable and customary rates. 

                      c.      EFP Rotenberg will require the Independent Consultant to enter into an 
                              agreement that provides that, for the period of engagement and for a 
                              period of two years from completion of the engagement, the Independent 
                              Consultant shall not enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-
                              client, auditing or other professional relationship with EFP Rotenberg, or 
                              any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, employees, or 
                              agents acting in their capacity as such.  The agreement will also provide 
                              that the Independent Consultant will require that any firm with which 
                              he/she is affiliated or of which he/she is a member, and any person 
                              engaged to assist the Independent Consultant in performance of his/her 
                              duties under this Order shall not, without prior written consent of the 
                              Division of Enforcement, enter into any employment, consultant, attorney-
                              client, auditing or other professional relationship with EFP Rotenberg, or 
                              any of its present or former affiliates, directors, officers, partners, 
                              employees, or agents acting in their capacity as such for the period of the 
                              engagement and for a period of two years after the engagement. 

               2.     Areas Independent Consultant Is To Review.  Within the periods specified in 
                      paragraph C.3. below, the Independent Consultant will review and evaluate EFP 
                      Rotenberg’s audit and interim review policies and procedures regarding: 

                      a.      the exercise of due professional care and professional skepticism; 

                      b.     obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence; 

                      c.      third-party confirmations; 

                      d.     detecting and reporting misstatements resulting from illegal acts that have 
                              a direct and material effect on the determination of financial statement 
                              amounts, including fraud; 

                      e.      the identification and consideration of the adequacy of disclosures of 
                              related parties and related party transactions; 

                      f.      evaluation of and reliance upon management representations; 

                      g.     supervision of individuals working on audits; and 

                      h.     adequate audit documentation, including work paper sign-off, archiving, 
                              and dating. 

       EFP Rotenberg shall cooperate fully with the Independent Consultant and shall provide 
reasonable access to firm personnel, information, and records as the Independent Consultant may 
reasonably request for the Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation described herein and the 
reports specified in paragraph C.3. below. 

                                                   14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

3.     Independent Consultant Reports and Certifications. 

       a.     Within five months of the Independent Consultant being retained, EFP 
              Rotenberg shall require the Independent Consultant to issue a detailed 
              written report (“Report”) to EFP Rotenberg: (a) summarizing the 
              Independent Consultant’s review and evaluation of the areas identified in 
              paragraph C.2 above; and (b) making recommendations, where 
              appropriate, reasonably designed to ensure that audits conducted by EFP 
              Rotenberg comply with Commission regulations and with PCAOB 
              standards and rules.  EFP Rotenberg shall require the Independent 
              Consultant to provide a copy of the Report to the Commission staff when 
              the Report is issued. 

       b.     EFP Rotenberg will adopt all recommendations of the Independent 
              Consultant in the Report.  Provided, however, that within thirty days of 
              issuance of the Report, EFP Rotenberg may advise the Independent 
              Consultant in writing of any recommendation that it considers to be 
              unnecessary, unduly burdensome, or impractical.  EFP Rotenberg need not 
              adopt any such recommendation at that time, but instead may propose in 
              writing to the Independent Consultant and the Commission Staff an 
              alternative policy or procedure designed to achieve the same objective or 
              purpose.  EFP Rotenberg and the Independent Consultant will engage in 
              good-faith negotiations in an effort to reach agreement on any 
              recommendations objected to by EFP Rotenberg. 

       c.     In the event that the Independent Consultant and EFP Rotenberg are 
              unable to agree on an alternative proposal within thirty days, EFP 
              Rotenberg either will abide by the determinations of the Independent 
              Consultant or seek approval from the Commission staff pursuant to 
              paragraph C.1.b above to engage, at EFP Rotenberg’s expense, a qualified 
              third party acceptable to the Commission staff to promptly resolve the 
              issue(s). 

       d.     Within sixty days of issuance of the Report, but not sooner than thirty days 
              after a copy of the Report is provided to the Commission staff, EFP 
              Rotenberg will certify to the Commission staff in writing that it has 
              adopted and has implemented or will implement all recommendations of 
              the Independent Consultant (“Certification of Compliance”).  EFP 
              Rotenberg will provide a copy of the Certification of Compliance to the 
              Commission staff. 

       e.     Within six months of the issuance of the Report, EFP Rotenberg shall 
              require the Independent Consultant to test whether EFP Rotenberg has 
              implemented and enforced its written policies and procedures concerning 
              the areas specified in paragraph C.2. above and assess the effectiveness of 
              those policies and procedures.  EFP Rotenberg shall require the 
              Independent Consultant to issue a written final report summarizing the 

                                   15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                             results of the Independent Consultant’s test and assessment (“Final 
                             Report”) and to provide a copy of the Final Report to the Commission 
                             Staff.  At this time, if the Independent Consultant determines that the 
                             undertakings discussed herein have been completed to the satisfaction of 
                             the Independent Consultant, EFP Rotenberg shall require the Independent 
                             Consultant to certify in writing that the undertakings have been so 
                             completed (“Independent Consultant Certification”) and provide a copy of 
                             this certification to the Commission staff.  EFP Rotenberg’s undertaking 
                             to not accept any New Clients, as described in paragraph A above, shall 
                             continue until the Independent Consultant has issued the Independent 
                             Consultant Certification. 

              4.     The Report, Final Report, Certification of Compliance, Independent Consultant 
                      Certification, and any related correspondence or other documents shall be 
                      submitted to Steven Klawans, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission, 175 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, IL 60604, with a copy to the Office 
                      of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement Division. 

              5.     For good cause shown, the Commission staff may extend any of the procedural 
                      dates relating to the undertakings.  Deadlines for procedural dates shall be 
                      counted in calendar days, except that if the last day falls on a weekend or federal 
                      holiday, the next business day shall be considered to be the last day. 

              6.     EFP Rotenberg agrees that if the Division of Enforcement believes that EFP 
                      Rotenberg has not satisfied these undertakings, it may petition the Commission to 
                      reopen the matter to determine whether additional sanctions are appropriate. 

       D.     EFP Rotenberg shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty 
in the amount of $100,000 to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the 
general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.   

       E.     Bottini shall, within 30 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the 
amount of $25,000 to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to the general 
fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not 
made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.   

       F.     Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   

              1.      Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
                      provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
 
              2.      Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through 
                      the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 
              3.      Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
                      postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission 

                                                  16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                      and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                             Enterprise Services Center 
                             Accounts Receivable Branch 
                             HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                             6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                             Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying EFP 
Rotenberg LLP or Nicolas Bottini, as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Steven L. Klawans, 
Chicago Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 175 West Jackson Blvd, Suite 900, 
Chicago, IL 60604.   
        
       G.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the 
deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, they shall 
not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of 
compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payments of a civil penalty in this 
action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, 
Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, 
notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities 
and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall 
not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of 
this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against 
Respondents by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in 
the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 

       H.     Bottini is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.  

                                                   V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 523 
of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by Bottini, and 
further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other amounts due by Bottini 
under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in 
connection with this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Bottini of the federal securities laws or 
any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy 
Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

        
       By the Commission. 

        

                                            Brent J. Fields 
                                            Secretary 

                                                   17 
