---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73222 / September 25, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3586 / September 25, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16170 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE         -
In the Matter of                             AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
                                             PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF 
      TRADEBOT SYSTEMS, INC. ,               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE 
                                             ACT OF 1934 , MAKING FINDINGS 
Respondent.                                  AND IMPOSING A CEASE  -AND-
                                             DESIST ORDER  
                                                 
                                         I.  
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
that cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Tradebot Systems, Inc. 
(“Respondent” or “Tradebot”). 
 
                                        II. 
 
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offer ”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely 
for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of 
the Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying 
the findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over  it  and the subject 
matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this 
Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange  Act  of  1934,  Making  Findings  and  Imposing  a  Cease-and-Desist  Order 
(“Order”), as set forth below. 
       
                                        III. 
       
                                                                           1
      On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that: 

                                                 
1
      The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are 
not binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
       A.     SUMMARY 
 
       1.     Tradebot is a registered broker-dealer that is required to file annual reports 
with the Commission containing financial statements audited by an independent public 
accountant (“Annual Reports”). 
        
       2.     From 2004 through 2012, Mayer Hoffman McCann P.C. (“MHM”) served 
as Tradebot’s auditor for the financial statements included in Tradebot’s Annual Reports 
filed with the Commission for those years. 
        
       3.     MHM is associated with CBIZ, Inc. (“CBIZ”), a publicly traded company, 
through a business model referred to as an alternative practice structure (“APS”).  CBIZ’s 
APS  model  with  MHM  utilizes  an  administrative  service  agreement  (“ASA”)  which 
requires  MHM  to  lease  from  CBIZ  virtually  all  of  the  human  capital,  equipment  and 
overhead MHM requires to perform its attest work, in exchange for a majority of MHM’s 
revenue. 
        
       4.     CBIZ is an associated entity of MHM, and CBIZ and MHM are viewed as a 
single entity for Commission auditor independence purposes. 
        
       5.     From 2008 to at least 2013, Tradebot has traded in CBIZ stock, thereby 
impairing   MHM’s   independence   with   respect   to   its   audits   of   Tradebot’s   financial 
statements for the years 2008 through 2012.  As a result, Tradebot’s Annual Reports do not 
comply with Rule 17a-5 for those years. 
                                             
                                      Respondent 

        
       6.     Tradebot Systems, Inc., is a broker dealer registered with the Commission, 
and is located in Kansas City, Missouri. 
 
                           Related Entities And Individuals 
 
       7.     Mayer  Hoffman  McCann  P.C.,  is  a  Missouri  professional  corporation 
headquartered in Leawood, Kansas, with offices throughout the U.S.   
        
       8.     CBIZ, Inc., is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, 
that provides products and services to businesses throughout the U.S.  CBIZ’s stock is 
traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
  
                 Commission Promulgated Revised Rule 2-01 In 2001 
 
       9.     In    2000,    the    Commission    promulgated    a    revision    of    its    auditor 
independence requirements under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X.  17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01.  
Included in the revision was subsection 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A) which provides: 
 

                                           2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       (iv)  Audit   clients'   financial   relationships.  An   accountant   is   not 
       independent when:  
        
       (A) Investments by the audit client in the accounting firm. An audit client 
       has, or has agreed to  acquire, any direct investment in the accounting 
       firm, such as stocks, bonds, notes, options, or other securities, or the audit 
       client's officers or directors are record or beneficial owners of more than 
       5% of the equity securities of the accounting firm. 
        
       10.    Pursuant   to  Section   17(a)   of   the   Exchange   Act   and  Rule   17a-5(d) 
promulgated thereunder, Tradebot is required to file an Annual Report which contains its 
audited financial statements.  Rules 17a-5(d), (e) and (f) specifically require that the Annual 
Report be audited by an “independent public accountant” and a “public accountant who 
shall be in fact independent” as defined by Rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X.  From 
2004 through 2012, Tradebot engaged MHM to audit its financial statements included in 
the Annual Report. 
        
             Tradebot Traded In CBIZ Stock During The Audit Periods 
 
       11.    Commencing in 2008, Tradebot began to regularly trade in CBIZ stock and 
continued to trade in that stock through at least June 2013.   
        
       12.    Prior to 2012, Tradebot was unaware of any prohibition against it acquiring 
any interest in the securities of CBIZ.  Prior to the 2012 audit period, MHM had never 
inquired whether Tradebot traded in CBIZ stock. 
        
       13.    In September 2012, MHM learned from Tradebot that Tradebot had traded 
in CBIZ stock, and discussed with Tradebot the possibility that such trades may impact 
MHM’s independence of Tradebot.  
  
       14.    Tradebot sought guidance from MHM regarding whether Tradebot’s trades 
in CBIZ stock may impair MHM’s independence but received no further guidance in that 
month. 
        
       15.    On  October  3,  2012,  before  resolving  whether  MHM  was  independent, 
Tradebot engaged MHM for the 2012 audit. 
        
                 MHM Provided Erroneous Instruction To Tradebot 
 
       16.    On December 5, 2012, MHM advised Tradebot that if it had not become the 
beneficial owner of more than 5% of the CBIZ stock at one time, MHM’s independence 
was not impaired in its audits of Tradebot’s financial statements.  As support for its advice 
to Tradebot, MHM quoted Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A). 
 
       17.    MHM’s  instruction  to  Tradebot  concerning  the  application  of  Rule  2-
01(c)(1)(iv)(A) was erroneous because the 5% threshold referenced in the rule does not 
apply to Tradebot; rather, it applies to Tradebot’s officers and directors. 

                                           3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       18.    In    January    and    February    2013,    MHM    had    communications    with 
Commission  Staff  (“Staff”)  regarding  Tradebot’s  trading  in  CBIZ  securities  and  the 
potential impact such trading had on MHM’s independence for the 2008 through 2012 
Tradebot audits. 
        
       19.    On  February  15,  2013,  as  part  of  its  discussions  with  Staff  regarding 
whether Tradebot would be required to refile its Annual Reports, Tradebot represented to 
the Staff, through MHM, that it had ceased trading in CBIZ stock.   
        
       20.    According to Tradebot, in an effort to cause Tradebot to cease trading in 
CBIZ  stock,  Tradebot’s  president  erroneously  disabled  trading  for  the  ticker  symbol 
“CBIZ” instead of “CBZ” in Tradebot’s trading system and, as a result, Tradebot never 
ceased trading in CBIZ stock.  According to Tradebot, the symbols “CBIZ” and “CBZ” 
were both listed as stocks in Tradebot’s trading system because, in the past, CBIZ stock 
had traded under the symbol “CBIZ.” 
        
       21.    Tradebot never checked its trading system to ensure it had ceased trading in 
CBIZ stock.   
        
       22.    On February 28, 2013, MHM issued a Report of Independent Registered 
Public  Accounting  Firm  for  Tradebot’s  2012  financial  statements  (“MHM’s  Report”).  
Tradebot included MHM’s Report in its Annual Report which it filed with the Commission 
on March 1, 2013. 
        
       23.    Shortly thereafter, Tradebot determined that it would not retain MHM for 
the 2013 audit because of the restriction on Tradebot trading in CBIZ stock. 
        
  MHM Provided Audit Opinions For 2008 Through 2012 That Represented It Was 
                     Independent Of Tradebot When It Was Not 
        
       24.    MHM performed audits of Tradebot’s financial statements for the periods 
2008   through   2012   in   connection   with   Tradebot’s   Annual   Reports   filed   with   the 
Commission.  MHM provided audit opinions for those audits which indicated, among other 
things, that MHM was independent of Tradebot for those audits.   
        
       25.    In   fact,   due   to   Tradebot’s   trading   of   CBIZ   stock,   MHM   was   not 
independent of Tradebot for the 2008 through 2012 audits included in the Annual Reports 
filed with the Commission for those years. 
        
                                 Tradebot’s Violations 
 
       26.    As a result of the conduct described above, Tradebot violated Section 17(a) 
of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder, which require Tradebot to file Annual 
Reports with the Commission that contain financial statements audited by an independent 
public accountant. 
        

                                           4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

                                          IV. 
        
In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Tradebot’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Tradebot cease 
and desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Section 
17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder. 
 
       B.     Respondent shall, within 14 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil 
money penalty in the amount of $50,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If 
timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717.  
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
       (1)    Respondent  may  transmit  payment  electronically  to  the  Commission, 
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
 
       (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 
       (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments  by  check  or  money  order  must  be  accompanied  by  a  cover  letter 
identifying Tradebot Systems, Inc., as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file 
number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must 
be sent to Karen L. Martinez, Regional Director, Salt Lake Regional Office, 351 South 
West Temple, Suite 6.100, Salt Lake City, UT 84101.   
  
       C.     The Division of Enforcement ("Division") may, at any time following the 
entry  of  this  Order,  petition  the  Commission  to:  (1)  reopen  this  matter  to  consider 
whether Respondent provided accurate and complete financial information at the time 
such representations were made; and (2) seek an order directing payment of disgorgement 
and pre-judgment interest. No other issue shall be considered in connection with this 
petition  other  than  whether  the  financial  information  provided  by  Respondent  was 
fraudulent, misleading, inaccurate, or  incomplete in  any  material respect. Respondent 
may not, by way of defense to any such petition: (1) contest the findings in this Order; (2) 

                                           5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

assert that payment of disgorgement and interest should not be ordered; (3) contest the 
amount of disgorgement and interest to be ordered; or (4) assert any defense to liability or 
remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense. 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 
 

                                             6 
