---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 79669 / December 22, 2016 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3837 / December 22, 2016 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17746 
                                                               
                                    
                                   :             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                   :             ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE-AND- 
                                   :             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT   
BADREE KOMANDUR, ACA,    :                       TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE   
SATISH ARUNACHALAM, CA,  :                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF  
AND WIPRO LIMITED,                 :             1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE  
                                   :             COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                   :             PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND   
Respondents.                       :             IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS, 
                                   :             A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER, AND A 
                                                               :  CIVIL PENALTY 

 

                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Wipro Limited (“Wipro” or 
“Respondent Wipro”) pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 
Act”), and that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted against Badree Komandur, ACA (“Komandur” or “Respondent Komandur”) and Satish 
Arunachalam, CA (“Arunachalam” or “Respondent Arunachalam,” and, together with Wipro and 
                                                 1
Komandur, “Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C   and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 
                                                  2
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   
                                                 
1
       Section 4C(a) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
              privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is 
              found…(1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others; (2) to be lacking in 
 
                                             1 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

  
 

                                                     II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over each of them respectively and 
the subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, all Respondents consent to the entry 
of this Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to 
Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions, a Cease-
and-Desist Order, and a Civil Penalty (“Order”), as set forth below.   
                                                       
                                                    III. 
 
                                                                                         3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds           that : 
                                                       
                                               SUMMARY 
         
1.      From 2006 through 2009, an accountant in Wipro’s Controllership Division, Anup Agarwal, 
embezzled money from Wipro and was involved in other misconduct, including personal 
transactions with his supervisors, Badree Komandur and Satish Arunachalam.  Komandur and 
Arunachalam, who served as Wipro’s Corporate Controller and Wipro’s Assistant Controller and 
General Manager of Finance, respectively, and KPMG India Audit Manager, Alok Saraf (“Saraf”), 
who was responsible for KPMG India’s audit procedures around Agarwal’s work related to Wipro’s 
foreign exchange and derivatives accounting, each accepted money from Agarwal during this time 
       4
period.         
                                                                                                                                                             
                character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to 
                have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
                securities laws or the rules and regulations issued thereunder. 
                 
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
         
                The Commission may…deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing 
                before it…to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted 
                the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations 
                thereunder. 
                 
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
4
        Komandur, Arunachalam and Saraf maintain that they were unaware of Agarwal’s embezzlement, and that they 
believed the payments from Agarwal were either investment proceeds that Agarwal had collected for them, or, in some 
cases, loans.  Saraf paid some money to Agarwal before the embezzlement was uncovered, which Saraf characterizes 
as a loan repayment. 
 
                                                     2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
 
                                                                                                5
2.      Agarwal embezzled 228 million Indian rupees, or more than $4 million, from Wipro         while 
hiding his conduct through  fraudulent accounting entries  in one of Wipro’s Exchange Rate 
Fluctuation (“ERF”) accounts.  Agarwal disguised his theft as a series of foreign currency losses.  
During the same time period, Komandur and Arunachalam also caused other erroneous accounting 
entries to be made in Wipro’s foreign currency exchange accounts.      
 
3.      The totality of these events, which Wipro uncovered in the course of multiple investigations, 
caused the company’s financial statements to be misstated in eleven periodic reports that Wipro 
filed with or furnished to the SEC during fiscal years 2008, 2009, and 2010.  Wipro’s internal 
accounting controls failed to detect the misconduct.  
 
4.      By the conduct described above, Wipro violated the reporting, books and records and 
internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act in connection with the misstatements.  Komandur 
and Arunachalam caused Wipro’s violations.  Komandur and Arunachalam also willfully violated 
certain internal controls provisions of the federal securities laws, specifically, Section 13(b)(5) of 
the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.  By virtue of their willful actions, Komandur and 
Arunachalam are subject to the provisions set forth in Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) and Section 4C of the 
Exchange Act. 
    
                                          RESPONDENTS 
                         
5.      Wipro Limited is an information technology service company incorporated in the 
Republic of India with its principal executive office in Bangalore, India.  Wipro’s American 
Depositary Shares (“ADSs”), each represented by one equity share, are registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.  Wipro’s ADSs trade on the New 
York Stock Exchange.  As a foreign private issuer, Wipro files annual reports with the 
Commission on Form 20-F, and furnishes interim financial statements to the Commission on 
Form 6-K.  Through fiscal year 2009, Wipro included in its annual and interim reports financial 
statements denoted as having been prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“U.S. GAAP”).  Starting in fiscal year 2010, Wipro began providing 
financial statements denoted as having been prepared in accordance with International Financial 
Reporting Standards (“IFRS”).   
 
                                     6, 7
6.      Badree Komandur, ACA,   age 45, is a citizen of the Republic of India.  Komandur 
joined Wipro in June 1998 as a Manager of Finance, thereafter became a Vice President of 

                                                                                                                                                             
        Saraf also accepted money from another Wipro accountant besides Agarwal whose job focused on matters 
relating to internal controls.  Saraf shared an apartment with this other accountant during the relevant time. 
 
5
        Wipro was able to recover a substantial portion of the stolen funds once it discovered the embezzlement.  
 
6
        The designation “ACA” (Associate Chartered Accountant) is a qualification gained through the Institute of 
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.  Komandur is also an Associate Member of the Institute of Company 
Secretaries of India, having completed specialized training in the area of corporate law.  Additionally, he attained 
 
                                                   3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

  
 

Finance, and then ascended to the Corporate Controller position in or around mid-2005, a role 
that he held until his resignation from the company in February 2010.     
 
                                     8
7.      Satish Arunachalam, CA,       age 44  , is a citizen of the Republic of India.  In 1996, 
Arunachalam became a member of the I      nstitute of C hartered A ccountants of India (“ICAI”).  
That same year, he also joined Wipro, where he worked until his resignation from the company 
in February 2010.  Arunachalam was Wipro’s Assistant Controller and General Manager of 
Finance during the relevant period.     
 
                     OTHER RELEVANT INDIVIDUALS AND ENTITY 
 
8.     Alok Saraf, CA, age 32, is a citizen of the Republic of India.  In 2005, Saraf became a 
member of the ICAI.  Saraf was employed by KPMG India from March 2006 through May 2010.  
Saraf joined the Wipro engagement team in September 2006, began performing audit and review 
procedures relating to Wipro’s derivatives and foreign exchange activities in September 2007, 
and, in or around December 2008, assumed primary responsibility for auditing this area.  He 
ceased work on the Wipro engagement in or around late December 2009. 
 
9.      Anup Kumar Agarwal, CA, (1983 – 2009), was a citizen of the Republic of India.  
Agarwal served as an accountant in the company’s Controllership Division from 2006 until April 
2009, where he was responsible for foreign exchange accounting, investment and banking 
operations, and treasury support activities.  Agarwal transferred into Wipro’s mergers and 
acquisitions (“M&A”) group in April 2009.  Agarwal took his own life on or about December 23, 
2009.      
                        
10.    KPMG India is an Indian Registered Partnership and a member of the KPMG network 
of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative, a Swiss entity.  
KPMG India audited Wipro’s consolidated financial statements and internal control over 
financial reporting during the time period relevant to this proceeding.  KPMG India is registered 
                  9
with the PCAOB.     
                                                    
                                                    

                                                                                                                                                             
membership in the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India and the Institute of Cost Accountants of India early in 
his career.   
 
7
       All of the individual respondents reside overseas in either South Asia or Southeast Asia, and all of them 
lived abroad during the entirety of the SEC’s investigation.   
    
8
       The designation “CA” (Chartered Accountant) is used in India by members of the ICAI. 
 
9
       KPMG India’s PCAOB registration application and the firm’s annual reports filed with the PCAOB list the 
firm’s legal name as “KPMG.”   
 

                                                   4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

  
 

                                                FACTS 
         
The Embezzlement and Other Foreign Exchange Accounting Errors  
 
11.    From November 2006 through mid-December 2009, Agarwal embezzled more than $4 
million from Wipro via transfers from Wipro’s bank accounts to a personal bank account under 
            10
his control.     Agarwal used  banking   passcodes belonging to various Controllership Division 
employees   to authorize a number   of the payments  .   Agarwal had access   to others’ banking 
passcodes and computer passwords because this information was shared by certain employees 
during the relevant time.   
 
12.    Agarwal concealed the embezzlement by recording fictitious currency exchange rate 
losses in a general ledger account at Wipro (the “ERF Account”).  The ERF Account was 
intended to be used to capture the impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations (ERF), as well 
                                        11
as gains and losses on related hedges.       Agarwal , however, created fictitious losses in the 
account   to disguise  the majority of the embezzlement payments.  In    a few   instances, he hid his 
theft  by making false entries in a  balance sheet liability account.       
         
13.    Agarwal was able to create fictitious accounting entries, initiate bank fund transfers and 
act as a “maker” for certain bank payments, and oversee bank reconciliations relating to certain 
bank accounts because of insufficient segregation in the duties assigned to him.  Agarwal 
exploited this control weakness.     
                                                    
14.    Wipro uncovered the embezzlement in December 2009 when Agarwal made an 
especially large transfer to a personal bank account under his control, which overdrew one of 
Wipro’s bank accounts.  The overdraft prompted a Wipro employee to scrutinize the payment 
and to discover its true nature.      
         
15.    Company officials confronted Agarwal in mid-December 2009.  Agarwal immediately 
admitted his crimes.  Two weeks later, he took his own life.  When Agarwal confessed, he 
revealed that he had given embezzled money to Komandur, Arunachalam, Saraf, and nine other 
Wipro employees under the guise of being purported profits from certain investments he had 
supposedly made for them.  Komandur’s and Arunachalam’s financial dealings with Agarwal, 
which undisputedly involved tens of thousands of dollars, violated a conflict of interest policy at 
Wipro.       
   

                                                 
10
        The embezzlement alone did not have a material impact on Wipro’s financial statements during any single 
reporting period during the relevant period. 
 
11
        Wipro enters into forward exchange contracts, also referred to as derivatives or hedges, to minimize the 
impact of currency fluctuations on its profits  .   
 

                                                    5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

  
 

16.     Around the same time that Wipro officials were probing Agarwal’s fictitious 
embezzlement entries, they also learned that there were other accounting errors and 
unsubstantiated journal entries that were not derived from the embezzlement. 
 
17.    These accounting errors and unsupported journal entries were present in multiple ERF 
accounts, including the ERF Account used in the embezzlement, as well as outstanding liability 
accounts from the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 through the fourth quarter of fiscal year 
2010.  Some of the errors were similar in nature to Agarwal’s embezzlement entries, in that they 
involved transfers from the ERF Account to a balance sheet liability account.  Such errors 
                                                                        12
impacted Wipro’s reported operating income and operating margin,           and  they were recorded by 
employees   with Komandur    ’s and Arunachalam’s knowledge. 
 
18.    Komandur and Arunachalam, in their supervising capacities as Corporate Controller and 
Assistant Controller, also presided over other errors in the company’s books and records.  During 
the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2009, Agarwal discovered an incorrect intercompany balance, 
which he raised to Komandur and Arunachalam.  The erroneous balance related to incorrect 
currency conversions that had been carried out on a periodic basis beginning in at least March 
2008 between Wipro’s business process outsourcing services business (BPO) and its Cyprus 
company.  The incorrect conversions caused both overstatements and understatements of 
                                                                                    13
Wipro’s reported profit before interest and tax over multiple reporting periods.        
         
19.    After Agarwal identified the error, Komandur and Arunachalam failed to undertake 
timely corrective action, and were aware that the error was not corrected for multiple quarters.  
This error remained on the books for the next four quarters and was fully corrected only in 
November 2010.  KPMG India working papers reflect that Komandur and Arunachalam 
represented to KPMG India staff that the company’s interim financial statements in fiscal years 
2009 and 2010 were prepared in conformity with GAAP and that no unusual journal entries or 
other adjustments had been recorded, despite the persistence of the error from the incorrect 
conversions.   
 
 
 
                                                 
12
        Gains and losses for Wipro’s ERF Account were recorded in the company’s income statement, and thus 
affected operating income and operating margin.  By transferring a portion of gains and losses from the ERF 
Account to a balance sheet liability account, these errors improperly impacted the current period profit.     
 
13
        As a result, this metric was overstated by approximately 130 million Indian rupees, or approximately $3.25 
million,   in the fourth quarter of Wipro’s fiscal year 2008, contained a net understatement of approximately 551 
million Indian rupees, or approximately $11 million, for Wipro’s fiscal year 2009, and was either overstated or 
understated by various amounts ranging from approximately 6 million Indian rupees, or approximately $124,766, to 
approximately 385 million Indian rupees, or approximately $8.6 million, in each quarter of Wipro’s fiscal year 2010, 
resulting in a net overstatement of 36 million Indian rupees, or approximately $800,000, for the end of that fiscal 
year.  The error was fully corrected in Wipro’s annual report for fiscal year 2010.   
 

                                                   6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

  
 

Agarwal’s Payments to KPMG India Auditor Saraf   
 
                                                                                            14 
20.    Between December 2007 and October 2009, Agarwal and another Wipro accountant
gave at least 715,000 Indian rupees, or approximately $15,543, to Saraf, who was responsible for 
auditing the company’s derivatives and foreign exchange accounts.  These funds equaled more 
than 5% of Saraf’s annual earnings in fiscal year 2008, nearly 19% of his annual earnings in 
fiscal year 2009, and over 50% of his earnings in fiscal year 2010.  
 
21.    In the summer of 2009, Saraf asked Agarwal to buy and sell on Saraf’s behalf the 
securities of a publicly traded company operating in the banking sector.     
        
22.    In August 2009, Agarwal deposited 96,000 Indian rupees, or approximately $2,086, into 
a Saraf account as purported trading profits.  In actuality, the funds for the deposit were not 
trading profits, since Agarwal never executed the trades Saraf had requested. 
 
23.    Agarwal later confessed that he paid Saraf money for the purpose of “maintaining good 
relationship.”  
 
Agarwal Claimed that Complete Ledgers for the ERF Account Were Not Available. 
 
24.    Wipro’s auditor did not have access to complete ERF Account details while Agarwal’s 
embezzlement was ongoing.  Agarwal lied to Saraf that it was not possible to extract the 
complete ERF Account details from Wipro’s general ledger.  Agarwal informed Arunachalam of 
the misrepresentation to Saraf at least as early as the second quarter of fiscal year 2010.  
Arunachalam did not object or take steps to clarify the matter.    
 
25.    Saraf then used an incomplete population to derive samples for testing the ERF Account.  
In conducting the audit of the ERF Account, Saraf requested a download of the SAP general 
ledger data so that he could perform testing procedures on the account balance population.  Upon 
receiving Saraf’s request, Agarwal informed Saraf that it was not possible to provide him with 
the SAP general ledger data for the account.  In response, and at the suggestion of Agarwal, 
Saraf elected to instead use the derivatives contract register, which was a sub-population of the 
total ERF Account, as the population from which to perform his audit testing of the ERF 
Account.  Saraf did not document in the workpapers Agarwal’s claim regarding the 
unavailability of the ERF general ledger data and KPMG India’s modification to the audit 
procedures as a result.   
 

                                                 
14
       Saraf shared an apartment with this individual for a portion of the time that Saraf worked on the Wipro 
engagement.     
 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

  
 

26.     Agarwal’s embezzlement and other errors in Wipro’s ERF accounts did not affect the 
register of derivative contracts—the only source of data that Saraf used for audit sampling—and 
                                                                                      15
were therefore insulated from possible detection during the sampling process.               
 
Wipro   Re vises its Financial Statements  . 
 
27.     On November 12, 2010, Wipro filed its annual report for fiscal year 2010, which 
incorporated disclosures related to foreign exchange accounting errors from the fourth quarter of 
                                                                     16
fiscal year 2008 through the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010.          The absolute value of the total 
of these errors was nearly $67 million     and impacted eleven periodic reports filed with or 
                                 17 
furnished  to the Commission    .   The errors affected several financial statement balances.   
  
28.     The errors had the largest impact on the company’s fiscal year 2009 quarterly reporting.  
The reported profit before tax was overstated by 4.9% in one quarter, and understated in amounts 
ranging from 3.4% to 6.0% in the other quarters.  The reported profit after tax was overstated by 
5.3% in one quarter, and understated in amounts ranging from 3.6% to 6.2% in the other 
quarters.  The reported operating income for Wipro’s IT Services reporting segment in fiscal 
year 2009 was overstated by 4.1% during the third quarter of fiscal year 2009, and understated 
by 4.7%, 7.7%, and 5.9% in the first, second, and fourth quarters, respectively, of fiscal year 
      18
2009.     
 
29.     Wipro’s IT Services segment was Wipro’s core business during the second quarter of 
fiscal year 2009, when Wipro understated the operating income for its IT Services by 7.7% under 
U.S. GAAP.  This segment comprised approximately 75% of the company’s consolidated 
revenue in fiscal year 2009, and made up 94% of Wipro’s overall operating income.  The 
operating income of this segment was highlighted in Wipro’s earnings releases during the 
relevant period.   
 

                                                 
15
        After the discovery of the embezzlement, KPMG India deployed a new audit team to conduct further 
testing procedures for the period from 2008 through 2010 for the general ledger accounts that Saraf had audited.  
 
16
        The revised financial results reflected:  (a) fore  ign e x change accounting errors identified in a review 
undertaken by an outside law firm in response to Agarwal’s confession; (b) errors made as part of the embezzlement 
scheme; and (c) other reporting errors.   
 
17
        For context, the company recorded approximately $6.05  billion in total revenues for fiscal year 2010, and 
its net income that year was approximately $1.02 billion.  
 
18
        In the company’s fiscal year 2009 annual report, the reported operating income for Wipro’s IT Services 
segment was understated by 3.4% under U.S. GAAP.   

                                                     8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

  
 

30.    In investigating the causes of the errors, Wipro identified and disclosed in its fiscal year 
2010 annual report the following material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting 
                                              19
that existed as of the end of fiscal year 2009:     
        
               (a) sharing of online banking access passwords and internal 
                   accounting system passwords both internally and with 
                   personnel responsible for external financial reporting;  
                    
               (b) lack of effective controls over recording of journal entries; 
        
               (c) lack of timely and adequate reconciliation and review of 
                   period-end reinstatement of foreign currency inter-company 
                   unit balances, including the recording of appropriate 
                   adjustments; and 
        
               (d) insufficient segregation of duties in relation to recording and 
                   initiating certain banking payments.   
 
The company’s recognition of material weaknesses was triggered by the embezzlement and the 
foreign exchange accounting errors subsequently uncovered.        
 
Wipro Undertakes Remedial Measures. 
 
31.    In the wake of the embezzlement and the accounting failures, Wipro took several steps 
intended to remediate weaknesses associated with its foreign exchange and derivatives 
accounting:  it conducted an internal investigation and used the results for remedial purposes; 
engaged an external law firm and external accountants to conduct an investigation and likewise 
used the results of that process for remedial purposes; hired additional accounting and finance 
personnel; voluntarily produced documents and information to Commission staff about the 
events described in this Order; and developed and adopted new policies and processes based 
upon recommendations by internal auditors and an outside consultant.   
 
32.    The consultant has produced multiple reports regarding Wipro’s currency risk management 
operations, its procurement to payment processes, and its financial reporting system, resulting in the 
company’s adoption of, among other things, password compliance declarations and controls, 
segregation of duties policies, and enhanced training.   
 
33.    Wipro also disciplined thirty-five individuals who were involved in the control failures and 
false accounting or who engaged in financial transactions with Agarwal. 

                                                 
19
       Wipro also concluded that its previously issued report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
(ICOFR), as of March 31, 2009, should no longer be relied upon.  Likewise, KPMG India concluded that its audit 
opinion on ICOFR as of March 31, 2009 should also no longer be relied upon.  

                                                 9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

  
 

                                           VIOLATIONS 
             
Wipro 
              
34.    Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-16 under the Exchange Act require foreign 
private issuers to furnish to the Commission on Form 6-K information required by that form, 
including, in Wipro’s case, information from quarterly reports, promptly after the information is 
             20
made public.      Rule 12b-20 under the Exchange Act, which applies to all reports filed or 
furnished pursuant to Section 13,   requires disclosure of such additional material information as 
may be necessary to make the required statements not misleading.  Implicit in these provisions is 
the requirement that the information reported be true, correct, and complete.      See SEC v. Kalvex, 
Inc., 425 F. Supp. 310, 315-16 (S.D.N.Y. 1975); see also SEC v. Koenig, 469 F.2d 198, 200 (2d 
Cir. 1972). 
 
35.    Wipro violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-16 
thereunder when it furnished to the Commission its interim report for the second quarter of fiscal 
year 2009.  That interim report materially understated the operating income of Wipro’s IT 
Services segment by 7.7% under U.S. GAAP.     
 
36.    Wipro violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, which requires reporting 
companies to make and keep books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately 
and fairly reflect their transactions and dispositions of their assets.  Because Wipro improperly 
recorded gains and losses from its derivatives and foreign currency transactions, its books, 
records and accounts did not, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect its transactions 
and dispositions of assets. 
 
37.    Lastly, as a result of the conduct described above, Wipro violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of 
the Exchange Act, which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally 
accepted accounting principles.          
 
Komandur and Arunachalam 
 
38.    By their conduct described above, Komandur and Arunachalam caused Wipro’s 
violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 
and 13a-16 thereunder.   

                                                 
20
        Form 6-K requires, among other things, a foreign private issuer to furnish to the Commission on that form 
whatever information the company “(i) makes or is required to make public pursuant to the law of the jurisdiction of 
its domicile or in which it is incorporated or organized….”  Form 6-K, General Instruction B.  Wipro furnishes 
reports to the Commission on Form 6-K each quarter because it must file quarterly reports with its local regulator.   
 

                                                   10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

  
 

 
39.    Based on the conduct described above, Komandur and Arunachalam willfully violated 
                                                                     21
Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder.           
 
40.    Due to their willful violations of the law, as set forth above, Komandur and Arunachalam 
are subject to the provisions set forth in Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.   
 
                                            FINDINGS 
 
41.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Wipro violated Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-16 promulgated 
thereunder.  
 
42.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Komandur and Arunachalam:  (i) 
willfully violated Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder; (ii) caused 
Wipro’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 12b-20 and 13a-16 promulgated thereunder; and (iii) are subject to the provisions set forth 
in Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice. 
        
                               CORPORATE UNDERTAKINGS 
                                                   
       In addition to the remedial actions taken by Respondent Wipro to date, Wipro has 
undertaken to: 
 
43.    Conduct a comprehensive review and prepare and submit to Commission staff, within 
180 calendar days of the entry of this Order, a written report (“Initial Report”) regarding Wipro’s 
policies, procedures, practices and internal controls related to accounting for foreign currency 
transactions, including derivatives and hedging activities (collectively, its “forex accounting 
program”).  The Initial Report shall include a complete description of Wipro’s forex accounting 
program and any proposals for improving, modifying, or supplementing the forex accounting 
program, and must be certified in writing by the audit committee of Wipro’s board of directors 
(“Audit Committee”).  The Initial Report and the Audit Committee certification shall be 
transmitted to Gregory G. Faragasso, Assistant Director, Division of Enforcement, United States 

                                                 
21
       These provisions prohibit persons from knowingly circumventing or knowingly failing to implement a 
system of internal accounting controls, knowingly falsifying any book, record or account, and directly or indirectly 
falsifying or causing to be falsified any book, record, or account.  A willful violation of the securities laws means 
merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what he is doing.’”  Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 
(D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)).  There is no requirement that the 
actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 
F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)). 
 

                                                 11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

  
 

Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549.  Wipro shall 
also provide a copy of the Initial Report to its external auditors.  Wipro may extend the time 
period for issuance of the Initial Report with prior written approval of the Commission staff. 
 
44.    Wipro shall undertake at least one follow-up review in the nine months after submission 
of its Initial Report to Commission staff, incorporating any comments provided by the 
Commission staff on the previous report, to further monitor and assess whether its forex 
accounting program is reasonably designed and capable of detecting violations of the federal 
securities laws and other applicable accounting principles related to accounting for foreign 
currency transactions (the “Follow-up Report”).  In the Follow-up Report, which must be 
certified in writing by the Audit Committee, Wipro shall also provide the Commission staff with 
its assessment of its forex accounting program. 
 
45.    The Follow-up Report shall be completed by no later than 270 days after the Initial 
Report.  Wipro shall also provide a copy of the Follow-up Report to its external auditors.  If, 
after the submission of the Follow-up Report, the Commission staff requests Wipro to undertake 
a second follow-up review of its forex accounting program, incorporating any comments from 
the Commission staff regarding the Follow-up Report, Wipro shall complete this review no later 
than 270 days after the date of the Commission staff’s request (“Second Follow-up Report”).  
The Second Follow-up Report, if one is requested, must:  be certified in writing by the Audit 
Committee; be provided to Wipro’s external auditors; and shall provide the Commission staff 
with an updated assessment of Wipro’s forex accounting program.  Wipro may extend the time 
period for issuance of the Follow-up Report and the Second Follow-up Report, if one is 
requested, with prior written approval of the Commission staff.  The Follow-up Report and the 
Second Follow-up Report, if one is requested, and the Audit Committee certification(s) shall be 
transmitted to Gregory G. Faragasso at the address listed above.   
 
46.    The periodic reviews and reports submitted by Wipro will likely include proprietary, 
financial, confidential, and competitive business information.  Public disclosure of the reports 
could discourage cooperation, impede pending or potential government investigations or 
undermine the objectives of the reporting requirement.  For these reasons, among others, the 
reports and the contents thereof are intended to remain and shall remain non-public, except (1) 
pursuant to court order, (2) as agreed by the parties in writing, (3) to the extent that the 
Commission staff determines in its sole discretion that disclosure would be in furtherance of 
the Commission’s discharge of its duties and responsibilities, or (4) if otherwise required by law. 
 
47.    Wipro shall certify, in writing, compliance with the undertakings set forth above.  The 
certification shall identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of 
a narrative, and be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The 
Commission staff may make reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and 
Respondent agrees to provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be 
submitted to Gregory G. Faragasso, with a copy to the Office of Chief Counsel of the Enforcement 
Division, no later than sixty (60) days from the date of the completion of the undertakings.   
 
                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

  
 

                                              IV. 
 
48.    In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers.    
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondent Wipro shall cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-16 thereunder.   
 
       B.     Wipro shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section III., paragraphs 43 
- 47, above. 
        
       C.      Wipro shall, within 10 days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty 
in the amount of $5 million (U.S.) to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission for 
transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to Exchange Act Section 
21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 
§ 3717.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
       (1)    Wipro may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which will 
              provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request; 
        
       (2)    Wipro may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov through the 
              SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
       (3)    Wipro may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States postal 
              money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
              hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Wipro Limited as a respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a 
copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Gerald Hodgkins, Associate 
Director, Division of Enforcement, United States Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F 
St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.   
         
        

                                              13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

  
 

       D.      Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall 
be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Wipro agrees that in any Related Investor 
Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any 
award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Wipro’s payment of a civil penalty  
in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Wipro agrees that it shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the 
Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty 
Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an 
additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty 
imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
private damages action brought against Wipro by or on behalf of one or more investors based on 
substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this 
proceeding. 
 
       E.      Wipro acknowledges that the Commission is not imposing a civil penalty in 
excess of $5 million (U.S.) based upon its cooperation in a Commission investigation.  If at any 
time following the entry of the Order, the Division of Enforcement (“Division”) obtains 
information indicating that Wipro knowingly provided materially false or misleading information 
or materials to the Commission or in a related proceeding, the Division may, at its sole discretion 
and with prior notice to Wipro, petition the Commission to reopen this matter and seek an order 
directing that Wipro pay an additional civil penalty.  Wipro may contest by way of defense in 
any resulting administrative proceeding whether it knowingly provided materially false or 
misleading information, but may not:  (1) contest the findings in the Order; or (2) assert any 
defense to liability or remedy, including, but not limited to, any statute of limitations defense. 
                                                  
       F.      Respondent Komandur shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-16, and 13b2-1 promulgated thereunder.            
        
       G.      Komandur is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   
 
       H.      After four years from the date of the Order, Komandur may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Komandur’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
                      which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                                               14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

  
 

               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Komandur, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the 
                              Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
                              effective; 
 
                      (b)     Komandur, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              Komandur’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that Komandur will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Komandur has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
                              and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Komandur acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he appears 
                              or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, 
                              to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the 
                              PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                              registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality 
                              control standards.   
      
       I.      The Commission will consider an application by Komandur to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his chartered accountant license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the ICAI, the Institute of Chartered Accountants 
of England and Wales, and the Institute of Cost Accountants of India.  However, if licensure is 
dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on 
its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the 
matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Komandur’s character, integrity, 
professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       J.      Respondent Arunachalam shall cease and desist from committing or causing any 
violations and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(2)(B), and 13(b)(5) of the 
Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-16, and 13b2-1 promulgated thereunder.            
        
       K.      Arunachalam is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   
 

                                               15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

  
 

       L.      After four years from the date of the Order, Arunachalam may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that 
                      Arunachalam’s work in his practice before the Commission will be 
                      reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
                      for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Arunachalam, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the 
                              Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
                              effective; 
 
                      (b)     Arunachalam, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
                              he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that 
                              inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in 
                              Arunachalam’s or the firm’s quality control system that would 
                              indicate that Arunachalam will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                      (c)     Arunachalam has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
                              and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                              imposed by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Arunachalam acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he 
                              appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                              accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission 
                              and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all requirements 
                              relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and 
                              quality control standards.   
      
M.     The Commission will consider an application by Arunachalam to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his chartered accountant license is current and  
 
 
 

                                               16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

  
 

he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the ICAI.  However, if licensure is dependent 
on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other 
merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters 
referenced above, any other matters relating to Arunachalam’s character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
             
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                17 
