---------------------Page 1---------------------

                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73427 / October 24, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3592 / October 24, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-16212 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
In the Matter of                                    AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
                                                    PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
   BERMAN & COMPANY, P.A.,                          OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
   and ELLIOT BERMAN CPA                            OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
                                                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
Respondents.                                                                  
                                                                                                   
                                                                               
                                                       
 
                                                 I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Elliot 
Berman (“Elliot”) and Berman & Company, P.A. (“Berman & Co.”) (collectively, “Respondents”) 
                        1
pursuant to Sections 4C   and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and 
                                                                            2
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure      any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
               to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
               any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
               violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
               securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunde r.  
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
                                                   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                   
                                                 II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C And 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules Of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.   
                                                III. 
 
                                                                                  3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds      that:  
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       Berman & Co. audited the financial statements of Issuer A for the year ended December 
31, 2011, as it had done for the prior five years.  Berman & Co.’s owner, Elliot Berman (“Elliot”) 
had been the lead partner for the Issuer A audit for the previous five years.  Accordingly, Elliot 
could no longer serve as the lead partner for the fiscal year (“FY”) 2011 audit.    
        
       Elliot appointed an employee at Berman & Co. (“Employee A”) as the nominal lead 
partner of the FY 2011 audit of Issuer A.  Employee A was not a certified public accountant 
(“CPA”).  Employee A was not otherwise qualified to be the lead partner.  While Berman & Co. 
was registered in the State of Florida and with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 

                                                                                                                                                             
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have 
               willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of 
               the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
3
       The findings herein  are made pursuant to Respondent    s’ Offer of Settlement and are not 
       binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                  2 
                                                   
---------------------Page 3---------------------

(“PCAOB”) to issue audits, relevant Florida statutes governing the practice of accounting in that 
state did not permit Employee A to issue an audit opinion and Employee A was not qualified under 
the standards of the PCAOB to express an opinion on the financial statements of a public company 
in an audit report.   
        
       In addition, despite the Commission’s rule that he rotate off the engagement, Elliot 
performed certain services of a lead partner on the audit.  Performing these duties violated the 
rotation requirements of the Federal securities laws and the rules and regulations thereunder.     
        
       By appointing Employee A as nominal lead partner and by Elliot’s continued performance 
of certain lead partner duties, Berman & Co. and Elliot Berman engaged in improper professional 
conduct and willfully violated and aided and abetted violations of the Federal securities laws and 
the rules and regulations thereunder.   
        
B.     RESPONDENTS 
 
       Berman & Company, P.A. (“Berman & Co.”) is an accounting and auditing firm based 
in Boca Raton, Florida.  Berman & Co. is registered with the PCAOB.  The firm reported having 
14 issuer audit clients on its PCAOB Form 2 filed on June 19, 2013.  The firm listed six 
accountants, two of which are CPAs, and stated two partners have the ability to sign audit 
reports.  Berman & Co. served as the auditor for Issuer A since 2006.   
        
       Elliot Berman is a CPA licensed to practice in Florida.  He has been a CPA in Florida 
since 2005 and a CPA since 1998, and has no disciplinary history.  Elliot served as the lead 
partner on Issuer A’s audits and reviews for the years ended 2006 through 2010.  During the 
relevant period, Elliot generally served as the lead partner for all of the firm’s issuer clients.  
Elliot is the founder and managing director of Berman & Co.  
        
C.     OTHER RELEVANT PARTIES 
 
       Employee A is an accountant in the firm Berman & Co.  Employee A served as the 
nominal lead partner on the audit of Issuer A for the year ended December 31, 2011.   
        
       Issuer A, a Delaware corporation, is a biotech company.  Issuer A’s stock is registered 
pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act.     
        
D.     FACT SUMMARY 
 
1.     Berman & Co. audited Issuer A for the years ended December 31, 2006 through December 
       31, 2011. 

2.     Elliot served as the lead partner for the FY2006 through FY2010 audits.   After the audit 
       for the year ended December 31, 2010, Elliot was required to rotate off as lead partner for 
       the Issuer A engagement for FYs 2011 through 2015.  Elliot was also required not to serve 

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       as the lead partner for any Form 10-Q reviews during this time.  See Rule 2-01(c)(6) of 
       Regulation S-X [17 C.F.R. 210.2-01(c)(6)]. 

3.     Elliot, as the managing director of Berman & Co., appointed Employee A as the nominal 
       lead partner on the Issuer A audit engagement and quarterly reviews for the year ended 
       December 31, 2011.   

4.     Employee A was not licensed to practice as a CPA and had never been a CPA.  Nor was 
       Employee A qualified to perform the functions of a lead partner for the audit of a public 
       company.  Employee A had no experience auditing public companies and very little 
       experience auditing private companies.  Nor did Employee A have the requisite 
       understanding of PCAOB audit standards necessary to perform a public company audit.   

5.     Through the course of the Issuer A quarterly reviews and audit for the year ended 
       December 31, 2011, Elliot performed some of the functions of a lead partner.   

6.     In particular, Elliot continued to serve as the primary contact with Issuer A’s management, 
       board of directors, and the board’s audit committee.  Elliot made the presentation of certain 
       matters related to the conduct of the audit to Issuer A’s audit committee (via phone).  He 
       also communicated with Issuer A’s management on substantive audit issues.   

7.     Elliot was the sole contact with the engagement quality review partner for the 2011 Issuer 
       A audit.   

8.     Elliot also reviewed and commented on the company’s 2011 Form 10-K, reviewed the 
       audit work papers for some of the 2011 quarterly reviews and left comments for the audit 
       team, made staffing decisions concerning the engagement, directed staff regarding audit 
       documentation, and performed the audit work regarding the company’s discontinued 
       operations.   

9.     On March 30, 2012, Berman & Co. issued an audit report in connection with its audit of the 
       financial statements of Issuer A for the year ended December 31, 2011.  In the audit report, 
       Berman & Co. incorrectly represented that it conducted its audit in accordance with 
       PCAOB standards.  Berman & Co did not, however, conduct its audit of the financial 
       statements of Issuer A for the year ended December 31, 2011 in accordance with PCAOB 
       standards, which require Berman & Co. to be independent and require the lead audit 
       partner to be qualified.  See PCAOB Rule 3520. 

E.     BERMAN & CO. AND ELLIOT BERMAN’S PERFORMANCE OF LEAD 
       PARTNER SERVICES VIOLATED FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS AND 
       CONSTITUTED IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT  
 
Exchange Act Section 10A(j), Audit Partner Rotation,  
and Rule 2-01(c) of Regulation S-X, Partner Rotation 

10.    Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act, Audit Partner Rotation, states: 
                                              4 
                                                
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       It shall be unlawful for a registered public accounting firm to provide audit services 
       to an issuer if the lead (or coordinating) audit partner (having primary responsibility 
       for the audit), or the audit partner responsible for reviewing the audit, has 
       performed audit services for that issuer in each of the 5 previous fiscal years of that 
       issuer.   

11.    Rule 2-01(c)(6) of Regulation S-X, Partner Rotation, states: 

       … an accountant is not independent of an audit client when: 

              (A)    Any audit partner … performs: 

                      (1)     The services of a lead partner …. or concurring partner … 
                      for more than five consecutive years; 

       …. 

              (B)     Any audit partner:  

                      (1)    Within the five consecutive year period following the 
                      performance of services for the maximum period permitted under 
                      paragraph (c)(6)(A)(1) of this rule, performs for that audit client the 
                      services of a lead partner … or concurring partner … or a 
                      combination of those services.   

12.    As detailed above, Elliot provided certain services of a lead partner for more than the five 
       consecutive years permitted. 

13.    As a result, Berman & Co. was not independent with respect to the audit services provided 
       in connection with Berman & Co.’s audit and reviews of Issuer A’s financial statements for 
       the year ended December 31, 2011. 

F.     BERMAN & CO. AND ELLIOT BERMAN’S APPOINTMENT OF EMPLOYEE A 
       AS LEAD PARTNER CONSTITUTED IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT  
 
Florida Statutes Governing the Practice of Accounting 

14.    The State of Florida defines the practice of public accounting to include the following: 

       (8)     “Practice of,” “practicing public accountancy,” or “public accounting” 
       means: 

              (a)  Offering to perform or performing for the public one or more types of 
       services involving the expression of an opinion on financial statements, the 
       attestation as an expert in accountancy to the reliability or fairness of presentation 
       of financial information, the utilization of any form of opinion or financial 

                                                5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       statements that provide a level of assurance, the utilization of any form of 
       disclaimer of opinion which conveys an assurance of reliability as to matters not 
       specifically disclaimed, or the expression of an opinion on the reliability of an 
       assertion by one party for the use by a third party; 

       Fla. Stat. §§ 473.302(8)(a). 

15.    The State of Florida states that a person may not knowingly  

       (1)  A person may not knowingly: 

               (a)  Practice public accounting unless the person is a certified public 
       accountant or a public accountant; 

       .... 

               (c)  Perform or offer to perform any services described in s. 473.302(8)(a) 
       unless such person holds an active license under this chapter and is a licensed audit 
       firm, provides such services through a licensed audit firm, or complies with ss. 
       473.3101 and 473.3141. This paragraph does not prohibit the performance by 
       persons other than certified public accountants of other services involving the use of 
       accounting skills, including the preparation of tax returns and the preparation of 
       financial statements without expression of opinion thereon; 

       …. 

               (g)  Employ unlicensed persons to practice public accounting…. 

       Fla. Stat. § 473.322(1).   

16.    Accordingly, Employee A was not permitted to serve as lead audit partner for the Issuer A 
       audit under the laws of the State of Florida.   

17.    Nor were Berman & Co. and its principal Elliot permitted to employ Employee A as the 
       lead partner for that audit. 

18.    Accordingly, Berman & Co. and Elliot’s employment of Employee A as the nominal lead 
       partner of that audit constituted a violation of applicable professional standards.   

PCAOB Interim Standards, AU Section 210:   
Training and Proficiency of the Independent Auditor 

19.    PCAOB Interim Standards, AU Section 210.01 requires that an audit “be performed by a 
       person or persons having adequate technical training and proficiency as an auditor.   

                                                 6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

20.    AU Section 210.02 makes clear that “however capable a person may be in other fields, 
       including business and finance, he cannot meet the requirements of the auditing standards 
       without proper education and experience in the field of auditing.”   

21.    AU Section 210.03 states, “In the performance of the audit which leads to an opinion, the 
       independent auditor holds himself out as one who is proficient in accounting and auditing. 
       The attainment of that proficiency begins with the auditor’s formal education and extends 
       into his subsequent experience. The independent auditor must undergo training adequate to 
       meet the requirements of a professional. This training must be adequate in technical scope 
       and should include a commensurate measure of general education…. The engagement 
       partner must exercise seasoned judgment in the varying degrees of his supervision and 
       review of the work done and judgments exercised by his subordinates….” 

22.    Berman and Co. and Elliot appointed a lead audit partner who did not meet the 
       requirements of PCAOB AU Section 210. 

PCAOB Interim Standards, AU Section 230: 
Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work 

23.    PCAOB Interim Standards, AU Section 230 .06 states, “Auditors should be assigned to 
       tasks and supervised commensurate with their level of knowledge, skill and ability so that 
       they can evaluate the audit evidence they are examining.  The engagement partner should 
       know, at a minimum, the relevant professional accounting and auditing standards and 
       should be knowledgeable about the client.” 

24.    AU Section 230.03 makes clear that an auditor “assumes the duty to exercise in the 
       employment such skill as he possesses with reasonable care and diligence. In all these 
       employments where peculiar skill is requisite, if one offers his services, he is understood as 
       holding himself out to the public as possessing the degree of skill commonly possessed by 
       others in the same employment, and if his pretentions are unfounded, he commits a species 
       of fraud upon every man who employs him in reliance on his public profession.”   

25.    Berman and Co. and Elliot Berman knowingly appointed a lead audit partner who did not 
       meet the requirements of PCAOB AU Section 230. 

PCAOB Interim Standards, QC Section 40:   
The Personnel Management Element of a Firm’s System of Quality Control Competencies 
Required by a Practitioner-in-Charge of an Attest Engagement   

26.    PCAOB Interim Standards, PCAOB QC Section 40.07 states that the “practitioner-in-
       charge of an engagement to audit the financial statements of a public company would be 
       expected to have certain technical proficiency in SEC reporting requirements…. This 
       would include, for example, experience in the industry and appropriate knowledge of SEC 
       … rules and regulations, including accounting and independence standards.”   

                                               7 
                                                 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

27.    Berman and Co. and Elliot Berman appointed a lead audit partner who did not meet the 
       requirements of PCAOB QC Section 40. 

G.     BERMAN & CO.’S AUDIT REPORT DID NOT COMPLY WITH PCAOB 
       STANDARDS AND THUS VIOLATED RULE 2-02 OF REGULATION S-X 

Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X, Accountants’ Reports and Attestation Reports  

28.    Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X (Representations as to the Audit included in 
       Accountants’ Reports) requires an accountant’s report to state “whether the audit was made 
       in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. (“GAAS”).” These standards 
       include the standards of the PCAOB.  “[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff 
       guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS or to specific standards under GAAS, 
       as they related to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards of the PCAOB plus 
       any applicable rules of the Commission.”  SEC Release No. 34-49708. 

29.    Berman & Co. issued an audit report on Issuer A’s 2011 financial statements stating that 
       it had conducted its audits in accordance with PCAOB standards.   

30.    Berman & Co.’s audit, however, was not conducted in accordance with PCAOB auditing 
       standards and interim standards as described above, and, moreover, was not conducted by 
       an independent auditor.  See PCAOB Rule 3520, Auditor Independence. 

31.    Accordingly, Berman & Co. violated and Elliot Berman aided and abetted and caused a 
       violation of Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X.    

H.     BERMAN & CO. AND ELLIOT BERMAN’S CONDUCT CAUSED VIOLATIONS 
       OF EXCHANGE ACT SECTION 13(a) AND RULE 13a-1 THEREUNDER 
 
32.    Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 require an issuer to file accurate annual reports 
       on Form 10-K.     

33.    Berman & Co. issued an audit report improperly indicating that its audit of Issuer A’s 
       2011 financial statements had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards, 
       despite the facts that Employee A lacked the requisite technical competence as required by 
       PCAOB auditing standards.  In addition, Berman & Co. was not independent because Elliot 
       continued to provide lead partner services.   

34.    The above-described actions by Berman & Co. and Elliot caused Issuer A to violate 
       Section 13(a) and Rule13a-1 thereunder.  Berman & Co. and Elliot caused Issuer A to file 
       a Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 that included an audit report that 
       incorrectly stated it had been conducted by an independent public accounting firm in 
       accordance with the standards of the PCAOB.  To the contrary, Berman & Co. was not 
       independent and its audit was not conducted pursuant to PCAOB standards. 

                                             8 
                                               
---------------------Page 9---------------------

I.     VIOLATIONS 
 
                                                                                              4
35.    As a result of the conduct described above, Berman & Co. and Elliot Berman willfully     
       violated Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act;   

36.    As a result of the conduct described above, Berman & Co. willfully violated and Elliot 
       Berman willfully aided and abetted and caused a violation of Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X. 

37.    As a result of the conduct described above, Berman & Co. and Elliot Berman caused Issuer 
       A to violate Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder. 

38.    As a result of the conduct described above, Berman & Co. and Elliot Berman engaged in 
       improper professional conduct as defined in Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) in that their conduct 
       constituted a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct resulting in a violation of 
       applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
       Commission.   

J.      FINDINGS 
 
39.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Elliot Berman and Berman & Co. 
       engaged in improper professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange 
       Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 

40.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Elliot Berman (a) willfully violated 
       Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act and, (b) willfully aided and abetted and caused a 
       violation of Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X, and (c) caused Issuer A’s violations of Section 
       13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.   

41.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Berman & Co. (a) willfully violated 
       Section 10A(j) of the Exchange Act, Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X, and (b) caused Issuer 
       A’s violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.     

K.     RESPONDENTS’ REMEDIAL EFFORTS 

        In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts promptly 
undertaken by Respondents and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.   

                

                                                 
4
 A finding of willfulness does not require intent to violate, but merely intent to do the act which 
constitutes a violation. SEC v. K.W. Brown & Co., 555 F. Supp. 2d 1275, 1309 (S.D. Fla.2007), 
citing Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 413-15 (D.C. Cir. 2000); SEC v. Steadman, 603 F.2d 
1126, 1135 (5th Cir. 1979); Arthur Lipper Corp. v. SEC, 547 F.2d 171, 180 (2d Cir. 1976). 
 

                                                 9 
                                                   
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                                                IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
 
        Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Elliot Berman and Berman & Co. shall cease and desist from committing or causing 
any violations and any future violations of Section 10A(j) and 13(a) of the Exchange Act, Rule 
13a-1 promulgated thereunder, and Rule 2-02 of Regulation S-X. 

       B.      Berman & Co. is censured. 
 
       C.      Elliot Berman is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   
 
       D.      After 1 year from the date of this order, Elliot Berman may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                       of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                       Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Elliot 
                       Berman’s work in his practice before the Commission will be reviewed 
                       either by the independent audit committee of the public company for which 
                       he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                       the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                       Commission that: 
      
                       (a)    Elliot Berman, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting 
                              Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley 
                              Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Elliot Berman, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
                              he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the Elliot 
                              Berman’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
                              that the Elliot Berman will not receive appropriate supervision; 
 
                       (c)    Elliot Berman has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, 
                              and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 

                                                10 
                                                  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                              imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the 
                              Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Elliot Berman acknowledges his responsibility, as long as Elliot 
                              Berman appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the 
                              Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner 
                              reviews and quality control standards.   
      
       E.      The Commission will consider an application by Elliot Berman to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will 
consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration 
of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Elliot Berman’s 
character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the 
Commission. 
        
       F.      Elliot Berman and Berman & Co. shall jointly and severally pay civil penalties of 
$15,000, to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Payment shall be made in the following 
installments: 
   
               Within 14 days of the issuance of this Order         $3,750 
               Within 90 days of the issuance of this Order         $3,750 
               Within 180 days of the issuance of this Order        $3,750 
               Within 210 days of the issuance of this Order        $3,750 
 
If any payment is not made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire 
outstanding balance of disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional 
interest accrued pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due 
and payable immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the 
following ways:   
 
               (1)    Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (2)    Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 

                                                11 
                                                  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Elliot Berman and Berman & Co. as a Respondents in these proceedings, and the file number of 
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to John T. 
Dugan, Associate Regional Director, Boston Regional Office, Securities and Exchange 
Commission, 33 Arch Street, Boston, MA 02110.   
                                                 
 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 
 

                                               12 
                                                 
