---------------------Page 1---------------------

                      UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                Before the 
                SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75401 / July 8, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No.  3670 / July 8, 2015 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4138 / July 8, 2015 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 31710 / July 8, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16328 
 
                                  ORDER  MAKING FINDINGS AND 
In the Matter of                  IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                  AND A CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER 
 VERO CAPITAL                     PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 203( e), 
 MANAGEMENT , LLC,                203(f), AND 203(k) OF THE 
 ROBERT GEIGER,                   INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 
 GEORGE BARBARESI,  ESQ,          1940, SECTION 9( b) OF THE 
 and STEVEN DOWNEY , CPA          INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 
                                  1940 AS TO ALL RESPONDENTS, 
Respondent s.                     AND PURSUANT TO RULE 102( e) OF 
                                   THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                   
                                                             
                                          
                                                
                                                            
                                                         
                                  
                                                      
                                   MMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                            
                                             
                                        
                                 I. 
 
     On December 29, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) 
instituted public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings against VERO Capital 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Management, LLC (“VERO Capital”), Robert Geiger (“Geiger”), George Barbaresi 
(“Barbaresi”), and Steven Downey (“Downey,” and collectively, “Respondents”) pursuant 
to Sections 203(e), 203(f), and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers 
Act”) and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company 
Act”) and against Downey pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice (“Rules of Practice”).  In addition, the Commission deems it appropriate that 
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted 
                                            1
against Barbaresi pursuant to Section 4C      of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
                                                                       2
(“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Rules of Practice.  
 
                                                II. 
 
        In response to the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted 
Offers of Settlement (“Offers”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter 
of these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, 
Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order Pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f), and 203(k) of 
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 
as to all Respondents, and Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice 
as to Steven Downey, and Instituting Public Administrative Proceedings, Making Findings, 
and Imposing Sanctions Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice as to George Barbaresi (“Order”), as set 
forth below. 

                                                 
1
        Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:    
 
                The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or 
                permane   ntly, to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
                the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess 
                the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in 
                character or integrity, or to have e  ngaged in unethical or improper 
                professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
                and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the 
                rules and regulations thereunder.     
         
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in per  tinent part, that:  
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege 
                of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to 
                have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any 
                provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and regulations 
                thereunder. 
 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
                                            III. 
 
On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that: 
 
       A.      SUMMARY 
 
       1.      These proceedings arise out of Respondents’ investment management 
activities on behalf of VERO Capital’s advisory clients, the VERO Distressed ABS 
Opportunity Fund, B.V. (“Distressed Fund”) and the VERO Distressed ABS Opportunity 
Master Fund, B.V. (the “Master Fund” and, collectively with the Distressed Fund, the 
“Funds”).   
        
       2.      Between late 2010 and 2011, Respondents caused the Funds to purchase 
three notes, with a total principal value of $7 million, from VERO Asset Management, 
LLC (“VERO Asset”), an affiliate of VERO Capital.  Because the Funds were purchasing 
the notes from a VERO Capital affiliate, the transactions constituted principal transactions 
under Section 206(3) of the Advisers Act, which require written notice and consent of the 
client before the completion of the transaction.  The client’s consent was not obtained 
before the completion of each individual transaction. 
        
       3.      Thereafter, from 2012 to 2013, Respondents improperly diverted 
approximately $2.8 million from the Funds for VERO Capital’s wholly-owned subsidiary 
(the “VERO affiliate”), by causing the Funds to make a series of undocumented, 
undisclosed bridge loans to the VERO affiliate.  At the same time Respondents were 
transferring the Funds’ assets to the VERO affiliate, they were telling the Distressed Fund’s 
investors and the Funds’ director that they were winding down the Funds and actively 
working to liquidate their remaining investments for redemption.  None of the Respondents 
disclosed the bridge loans to the Funds or any of their investors.   
 
       B.      RESPONDENTS 
 
       4.      VERO Capital is a Delaware limited liability company formed in 2003 
with its principal place of business in New York, New York.  It has been registered with 
the Commission as an investment adviser since 2008.  VERO Capital is the investment 
manager to the Distressed Fund.  Respondents Geiger, Downey, and Barbaresi are part 
                                   3
owners of, and are associated with,  VERO   Capital  ..   VERO   Capital has several wholly-
owned subsidiaries , which included the VERO affiliate  at all times relevant to the activities 
detailed herein. 
 

                                                 
3
  A “person associated with” an investment adviser means “any partner, officer, or 
director of such investment adviser (or any person performing similar functions), or any 
person directly or indirectly controlling or controlled by such investment adviser, 
including any employee of such investment adviser . . . .”  See Advisers Act § 202(a)(17).  

                                             3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       5.     Geiger, age 55, resides in Wainscott, New York.  Geiger is a co-owner of 
VERO Capital, and through it, the VERO affiliate, and has served as VERO Capital’s 
managing member since 2003.  From at least 2010 through December 2013 (the “Relevant 
Period”), Geiger served on VERO Capital’s Investment Committee.  Geiger was the VERO 
affiliate’s managing member at all times relevant to the activities detailed herein as well.  
Geiger has previously held Series 3, 7, and 63 licenses, but he is not currently registered 
with the Commission in any capacity. 
 
       6.      Barbaresi, age 59, resides in Dayton, Ohio.  Barbaresi is a co-owner of 
VERO Capital, and through it, the VERO affiliate, and has served as VERO Capital’s 
general counsel since December 2003.  During the Relevant Period, Barbaresi served on 
VERO Capital’s Investment Committee.  Barbaresi is the VERO affiliate’s general counsel 
as well.  Barbaresi is an attorney in good standing licensed to practice in New York, 
Connecticut, and the District of Columbia   
 
       7.      Downey, age 57, resides in Prospect, Kentucky.  Downey is a co-owner of 
VERO Capital, and through it, the VERO affiliate, and has served as VERO Capital’s chief 
financial officer since August 2004.  During the Relevant Period, Downey served on 
VERO Capital’s Investment Committee.  Downey is the VERO affiliate’s chief financial 
officer as well.  Downey has been a certified public accountant licensed to practice in 
Florida and Alabama, although his license is not currently active in any jurisdiction and he 
does not hold himself out as a CPA. 
 
       C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 
 
       8.     The VERO affiliate is a Delaware limited liability company formed in 
2008 with its principal place of business in New York, New York.  During the Relevant 
Period, the VERO affiliate was a wholly-owned subsidiary of VERO Capital.  The VERO 
affiliate’s officers and its marketing materials describe the company as a risk analytics 
business.  

       9.     The Distressed Fund is a private company with limited liability 
incorporated under the laws of the Netherlands in 2008.  The Distressed Fund is 100% 
owned by Stichting VERO Distressed ABS Opportunity Fund, a foundation established 
under the laws of the Netherlands, and incorporated by TMF Management, B.V. (“TMF 
Management”), a Dutch corporate services provider.  The Distressed Fund aimed to 
achieve returns by investing in the affiliated Master Fund, which made investments in 
various securities. 

       10.    The Master Fund is a private company with limited liability incorporated 
under the laws of the Netherlands in 2007.  The Master Fund is 100% owned by Stichting 
VERO Distressed ABS Opportunity Master Fund, a foundation established under the laws 
of the Netherlands, and incorporated by TMF Management.  The Master Fund’s primary 
stated investment objective was to maximize returns by investing in a diverse portfolio of 
mortgage-related structured finance securities, whole mortgage loans and other fixed-
income instruments. 

                                            4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       11.    VERO Asset is a Delaware limited liability company formed in 2003 with 
its principal place of business in New York, New York.  During the Relevant Period, 
VERO Asset was a wholly-owned subsidiary of VERO Capital that made certain loans, 
including one to Cayden Holdings, LLC (“Cayden”), a VERO Capital affiliate, that the 
Funds later purchased. 

       12.    VERO Realty Advisors, LLC (“VERO Realty”) is a Delaware limited 
liability company formed in 2012 with its principal place of business in New York, New 
York.  During the Relevant Period, VERO Realty was a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
VERO Capital.  Certain funds that VERO Capital diverted from the Funds to the VERO 
affiliate in 2013 were initially transferred to a bank account held in the name of VERO 
Realty. 

       13.    Cayden is a Delaware limited liability company formed in 2007 with its 
principal place of business in Baltimore, Maryland.  During the Relevant Period, Cayden 
was a wholly-owned subsidiary of VERO Asset.  The Funds purchased a note from VERO 
Asset in November 2010 that evidenced a $3 million loan that VERO Asset had made to 
Cayden (the “Cayden Note”).  VERO Capital ultimately diverted to the VERO affiliate a 
portion of the money that was due to the Funds to repay the $3 million loan. 

       14.    TMF Management is a Dutch private company with limited liability 
headquartered in Amsterdam, The Netherlands.  TMF Management served as director for 
the Distressed Fund and the Master Fund and provided management, corporate and 
administrative services to the Funds, with the exception of investment management 
services, which VERO Capital provided. 

       D.     FACTS 

       Background  

       15.    The Distressed Fund and the Master Fund are structured in a master-feeder 
relationship.  The Distressed Fund is the feeder fund and aimed to generate returns by 
investing substantially all of its cash (raised from issuing notes to investors) in notes issued 
by the Master Fund.  The Master Fund then used those proceeds to invest in mortgage-
related finance securities and other distressed investments, as described below.  Both the 
Distressed and Master Funds are Dutch companies each of whose shares are entirely owned 
by separate Dutch foundations, or “stichtings.”  The stichtings were incorporated by TMF 
Management, a Dutch corporate services provider, which serves as the director for both 
Funds.  The stichtings are legal entities without shareholders whose object is to hold the 
shares of the Funds and have overall control over the Funds’ management.  However, the 
Funds, through TMF Management, delegated to VERO Capital the exclusive power and 
authority to manage the Funds’ investments on a discretionary basis. 

       16.    VERO Capital marketed the Distressed Fund to three foreign investors in 
2008, raising approximately $75 million by selling them participating notes issued by the 
Fund, with the vast majority coming from two of the three investors.  According to the 
Distressed Fund’s private placement memorandum (“PPM”), its principal investment 

                                           5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

objective was to achieve returns by investing through the Master Fund in a diverse 
portfolio of mortgage-related finance securities, whole mortgage loans and other fixed 
income instruments, including rated or unrated and performing or distressed securities 
issued by issuers of collateralized debt obligations, and special situation investments.  The 
Distressed Fund could invest in a broad array of assets, but the Distressed Fund’s PPM 
stated that “[i]t is intended that the portfolio will consist of approximately 80% U.S. RMBS 
Securities and there will be no . . . corporate credit risk.”  The Distressed Fund’s two 
biggest investors understood that the Fund’s primary purpose was to invest in mortgage-
backed securities. 

       17.     With respect to transactions involving affiliates of VERO Capital, the PPM 
stated that VERO Capital may purchase loans originated or syndicated by any affiliate of 
VERO Capital or otherwise engage in affiliated transactions on behalf of the Fund.  
However, to do so, VERO Capital was required to obtain the prior written consent of a 
committee comprised of VERO Capital’s investment professionals (the “Investment 
Committee”).  At all times relevant to this action, Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey were 
members of the Investment Committee.  No person independent of VERO Capital served 
on the Investment Committee. 

       Purchase of the Cayden Note 

       18.     After their inception, the Funds invested primarily in residential and then 
commercial mortgage-backed securities (“RMBS” and “CMBS”).  They undertook other 
investments as well.  Specifically, in November 2010, the Investment Committee, on which 
Geiger, Downey, and Barbaresi sat, approved a transaction in which the Distressed Fund 
                                                                  4
was to purchase the $3 million Cayden Note from VERO Asset.           Under the terms of the 
Cayden   N ote,  VERO   Asset loaned $3 million to another VERO   Capital affiliate, Cayden.  
The Cayden Note paid 15% interest per annum due in monthly installments, with the entire 
principal due on December 1, 2013.  The interest r  ate increased to 19% per annum in the 
event of a default.  The Cayden Note also provided that its holder could accelerate the 
payment of the Note’s principal in the event of a default. 

       19.     This affiliated investment was documented by a written authorization by the 
Investment Committee; however, the investment was not disclosed prior to its completion 
to TMF Management or to any Distressed Fund investor; nor was consent for the 
investment obtained from any party outside VERO Capital. 

       20.     The consent authorizing the purchase of the Cayden Note made clear that 
the purpose for the loan was for Cayden to make certain trades involving Government 

                                                 
4
    In fact, the Master Fund purchased the Cayden Note according to the 2010 audited 
financi  al statements.  The PPM disclosed that the Distressed Fund and the Master Fund 
would be treated interchangeably:  “Unless specified otherwise, references herein to the 
Fund’s investments and investment program include references to the Master Fund’s 
investments and investment program, to the extent that the Fund invests through the 
Master Fund.”  Geiger, Downey and Barbaresi made little effort to distinguish among 
them. 

                                               6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

National Mortgage Association (“GNMA”) mortgage-backed securities.  Cayden’s 
business plan was to enter into agreements to fund Federal Housing Administration backed 
fixed-rate construction loan commitments.  Draws funded under the loan commitments 
were guaranteed as to the principal by GNMA, and therefore once the loans were made, 
they were securitized and Cayden sold the GNMA securities into the aftermarket (the 
“GNMA trading strategy”).  The GNMA trading strategy generated profits for Cayden 
through 2011 and 2012.   

       21.     VERO Capital disclosed the Master Fund’s purchase of the Cayden Note 
and Cayden’s GNMA trading strategy in the notes to the Master Fund’s year-end 2010 
audited financial statements, which were sent to the Distressed Fund’s investors in April 
2011.  Cayden made interest payments on the Cayden Note to the Master Fund until 
February 2013 at which point Cayden defaulted.  Although Cayden’s failure to pay interest 
when due permitted the Master Fund to accelerate the maturity of the Cayden Note, VERO 
Capital made no effort to collect on the Cayden Note on the Funds’ behalf, as described 
below.   

       Purchase of the Envo and Tallas Notes 

       22.     In December 2011, the Investment Committee approved the Distressed 
                                                                        5
Fund’s purchase of two additional promissory notes from VERO Asset.         Under the terms 
of the notes, VERO   Asset loaned $2 million each to two unaffiliated issuers, Envo 
Properties, LLC (“Envo”) and Tallas Properties, LLC (“Tallas”).  The loans’ purpose was 
for Envo and Tallas to make real-estate related investments.  The notes (hereinafter the 
“Envo and Tallas Notes”) paid 12% interest per annum.  The Envo and Tallas Notes were 
guaranteed by an individual and were due to mature January 31, 2013.   

       23.     On December 12, 2011, approximately one week after VERO Asset 
originated the Envo and Tallas Notes and the Master Fund purchased them, the 
Commission charged the guarantor and others with operating a Ponzi scheme.  See SEC v. 
Management Solutions, Inc., No. 2:11-cv-01165-BSJ (D. Utah).  Simultaneously with the 
filing of its lawsuit, the Commission obtained a court order freezing the guarantor’s assets 
and the assets of entities under his control.  Like the purchase of the Cayden Note, the 
Investment Committee approved the purchase of the Envo and Tallas Notes, but the 
investments were not disclosed prior to their being completed to TMF Management or to 
any Distressed Fund investor; nor was consent for the investments obtained from any party 
outside VERO Capital. 

       24.     In early 2012, Barbaresi and Downey took steps to recoup the principal on 
the Envo and Tallas Notes.  As a result of those efforts, in July 2012, VERO Capital 
recouped approximately $2.1 million of the principal on the Envo and Tallas Notes.  Of this 
amount, VERO Capital returned $1.5 million to the Master Fund in September 2012.  As 

                                                 
5
   As was true with the purchase of the Cayden Note, the 2011 audited financial 
statemen ts indicate that it was the Master Fund, not the Distressed Fund, that purchased 
the Envo and Tallas Notes.  

                                             7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

described further below, VERO Capital diverted the remaining approximately $600,000 for 
the VERO affiliate, which drew down on it over time.   

       25.     VERO Capital disclosed the purchase of the Envo and Tallas Notes in the 
notes to the Funds’ audited financial statements for year-end 2011.  In addition, in April 
2012, VERO Capital sent a letter to the Distressed Fund’s investors, enclosing the audited 
2011 financial statements for the Funds, that described the situation with the Envo and 
Tallas Notes.  In the letter, VERO Capital stated that it was placing the Envo and Tallas 
loans on “non-accrual status” and “after much deliberation” was adjusting the fair value of 
the notes to approximately $1.8 million for each note to “reflect a liquidity discount.”  

       Respondents Communicate that the Funds Are Winding Down and  
       Investors Will Be Redeemed 

       26.     By the fall of 2011, VERO Capital began returning principal to the 
Distressed Fund’s investors.  In a June 2012 email, a representative of one of the investors 
sought information from Geiger about the timing of the wind down and return of 
investment:  “My understanding was the [sic] VERO should have been redeemed in full by 
now.  As it’s not, do you have a liquidity schedule for the remaining part?”  Geiger 
responded that VERO Capital had been returning principal “since last Fall” and that VERO 
Capital was “seeking to make three more distributions before the end of the year, returning 
the remainder by year end, with a potential tail in January” 2013.  After the same investor 
representative asked for an update at the beginning of September 2012, Downey drafted an 
email response ultimately sent by Barbaresi stating that VERO Capital remained 
committed to making another distribution in October 2012.  Barbaresi added: “As we 
continue to sell assets and raise cash, we will be able to obtain greater clarity around the 
liquidity in the market.  We should know by early December if the third distribution will be 
in December or later as we continue to gain clarity and finish the wind up of the fund.” 

       27.     In 2013, the Distressed Fund’s two major investors continued to ask about 
the status of the Fund’s wind-down and the return of their principal.  For example, in April 
2013, a representative of one of these investors asked for another update on the Distressed 
Fund’s wind-down, noting that “[b]ack in Jun/12 the fund was estimated to be fully 
distributed before end of 2012, with a potential tail into Jan/13.”  Barbaresi responded later 
in the month:  “We have been actively liquidating the fund’s assets and the remaining 
assets are very illiquid. . . . We hope to have the remaining assets sold by the second half of 
the year and will keep you updated on ongoing asset sales and distributions.”  
Subsequently, in May, Barbaresi told another investor representative that “[w]e really can’t 
accurately predict when the final liquidation of the fund will occur, as we discussed, we are 
looking at options to put the last of the illiquid assets into a structure that will not incur 
administrative fees.”   

       28.     In June 2013, Downey, in response to questions by TMF Management 
about when it could expect the Funds’ 2012 audit reports, notified TMF Management that 
VERO Capital had begun to wind down the Fund, and that an audit would be conducted 
together with the wind-down audit.  Prior to that time, none of the Respondents notified 
TMF Management of VERO Capital’s intentions to liquidate the Funds, and the only notice 

                                             8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

TMF Management received of the Funds’ return of principal to investors was a line item in 
the 2011 audited financial statements that TMF Management received some time in or after 
April 2012. 

       The Undisclosed Loans from the Funds to Finance the VERO Affiliate 

       29.    Beginning in at least 2008, while it was serving as investment manager to 
the Funds, VERO Capital was also developing the VERO affiliate as a risk management 
business or financial services technology company.  The VERO affiliate’s business plan 
was to provide large financial institutions with a platform to assist them with modeling the 
valuation of various pieces of their portfolios in different economic scenarios.  VERO 
Capital anticipated that the demand for this type of service would increase following the 
financial crisis in 2008 and the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, with its requirements that 
large financial institutions perform “stress tests” on their portfolios.   

       30.    During all times relevant to this action, the VERO affiliate was a wholly-
owned subsidiary of VERO Capital.  Because they were co-owners of VERO Capital, 
Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey were also co-owners of the VERO affiliate.  In 
approximately 2010, Downey began treating the VERO affiliate as a separate entity for 
accounting purposes, booking revenues and expenses of the VERO affiliate separately from 
VERO Capital.  Beginning in 2010, most VERO Capital employees became employees of 
the VERO affiliate.   

       31.    Beginning in at least February 2012 and continuing through October 2013, 
when Commission examination staff commenced an examination of VERO Capital, 
Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey, through VERO Capital, improperly diverted 
approximately $2.8 million in assets of the Funds for purposes of financing the VERO 
affiliate’s operations.  While informing the Distressed Fund’s investors that the Funds were 
being wound down, Respondents at the same time transferred the money from the Funds 
through purported bridge loans to the VERO affiliate.  These loans were never 
documented, nor were any of them disclosed to the Funds or their investors until after the 
Division of Enforcement (“Division”) had commenced its investigation.  In making the 
bridge loans to the VERO affiliate, Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey did not follow the 
procedures for affiliated transactions set forth in the PPM.  Nor were any of the bridge 
loans to the VERO affiliate reduced to writing, although they were recorded in the Master 
Fund’s general ledger. 

       32.    VERO Capital accomplished the transfers from the Funds to the VERO 
affiliate in multiple transactions.  First, as the money invested through the Cayden Note in 
the GNMA trades was returned to Cayden as those trades were closed out throughout 2012, 
Geiger, Downey, and Barbaresi used at least $1.4 million to benefit the VERO affiliate, 
rather than returning it to the Funds.  Downey arranged the transfer of the $1.4 million over 
time from accounts associated with Cayden to accounts associated with VERO Capital, 
VERO Asset, or the VERO affiliate, ultimately for the VERO affiliate’s benefit.  None of 
the Respondents prepared any documentation concerning the transfers to indicate whether 
they were loans or investments by Cayden in the VERO affiliate. 

                                            9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       33.    Second, in July 2012, VERO Capital secured the return of $2.1 million of 
the Envo and Tallas Notes’ principal.  While VERO Capital transferred $1.5 million of that 
amount back to the Funds, Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey used the remaining $600,000 
for the benefit of the VERO affiliate from December 2012 through February 2013.  As 
VERO Capital and the VERO affiliate’s CFO, Downey was primarily responsible for 
disbursing money on their behalf, and Geiger and Barbaresi were aware, or should have 
been aware, that Downey was using returned Envo and Tallas Note principal to benefit the 
VERO affiliate. 

       34.    Finally, in August and September 2013, as the VERO affiliate’s bank 
account was nearly depleted, and after VERO Capital had notified TMF Management that 
the Funds were being liquidated, Downey orchestrated two transfers, of $500,000 and 
$300,000, respectively, from the Master Fund’s custodial bank account for the benefit of 
the VERO affiliate.  Downey directed the August and September 2013 transfers from the 
Master Fund’s account at U.S. Bank to VERO Realty, another VERO Capital affiliate. 

       35.    Because U.S. Bank also served as the Funds’ administrator and therefore 
maintained their books and records, Downey had to provide a reason to U.S. Bank for the 
two disbursements so that U.S. Bank could document what the money was being used for.   

       36.    In an August 1, 2013 email to U.S. Bank, Downey, copying Barbaresi, 
advised the bank that VERO Capital (through its affiliate, VERO Realty) would invest the 
$500,000 that he requested in a property related to the Master Fund’s Tallas Note in order 
to recoup additional principal on the Tallas Note.  Downey and Barbaresi were aware, or 
should have been aware, that the $500,000 would not be used to invest in a property related 
to the Tallas Note, but would instead be transferred to pay VERO Capital’s and the VERO 
affiliate’s expenses.   
 
       37.    The same day, U.S. Bank wired $500,000 to the VERO Realty account.  
Immediately thereafter, also on August 1, Downey transferred $80,000 of the $500,000 
from the VERO Realty account to a VERO Capital account and used the money to pay for 
the VERO affiliate’s expenses.  On August 2, Downey made two transfers of $50,000 and 
$20,000 from the VERO Realty account to the VERO Capital account, and then 
subsequently transferred that money to a VERO affiliate account.   
        
       38.    By September 12, 2013, Downey had transferred all of the $500,000 from 
the VERO Realty account for the benefit of the VERO affiliate.  Geiger was aware, or 
should have been aware, that Downey and Barbaresi obtained the $500,000 from the 
Master Fund’s account and used the money for the VERO affiliate. 

       39.    Again, on September 26, 2013, Downey emailed U.S. Bank, this time 
copying Barbaresi and Geiger, requesting another transfer to VERO Realty for expenses 
related to the Tallas properties, again ostensibly for the purposes of recouping additional 
principal related to the Tallas Note.  As part of his September 26, 2013 email, Downey 
forwarded the previous request for $500,000 that he made on August 1.  Downey, 
Barbaresi, and Geiger were aware, or should have been aware, that the September 26, 2013 

                                           10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

transfer from the Master Fund account would not be used for expenses related to the Tallas 
properties. 

       40.    U.S. Bank wired $300,000 to the VERO Realty account on September 26, 
and Downey began drawing down the account the next day.  By October 23, 2013, 
Downey had used the entirety of the $300,000 for the benefit of the VERO affiliate.   

       41.    The $500,000 and $300,000 transferred from the Master Fund account on 
August 1, 2013 and September 26, 2013, respectively, were not approved or documented 
by the Fund’s Investment Committee.  Neither Downey, Barbaresi nor Geiger ever advised 
TMF Management, U.S. Bank, or Distressed Fund investors that the Master Fund’s money 
had been used for the benefit of the VERO affiliate until after the commencement of the 
Division’s investigation. 
 
       Respondents’ Nondisclosure of the Transfers to the VERO Affiliate 
 
       42.    The Respondents took no action to disclose the transfers from the Funds to 
the VERO affiliate.  The Funds’ bridge loans to the VERO affiliate were not timely 
disclosed to the Distressed Fund’s investors or TMF Management.  During the period when 
the Funds’ assets were being used to finance the VERO affiliate, Downey, Geiger and 
Barbaresi each prepared and/or reviewed periodic (monthly, then quarterly) newsletters to 
the Distressed Fund’s investors in which the nature and amount of the Fund’s investments 
were purportedly described to them.  None of those newsletters disclosed the existence of 
the transfers to the VERO affiliate.  None of the loans to the VERO affiliate was properly 
documented in any loan agreements.  Downey only directed that they be recorded as entries 
in VERO Capital’s general ledger.  At no time did anyone prepare any promissory note or 
other document evidencing the VERO affiliate’s debt to the Funds as a result of the 
approximately $2.8 million in ostensible loans that the Funds provided.   
        
       43.    Cayden first defaulted on interest payments due to the Funds under the 
Cayden Note in February 2013.  Cayden defaulted on the interest payments even though 
Cayden’s original investment strategy, the GNMA trading strategy, had been profitable.  
When Cayden stopped paying interest, under the terms of the Cayden Note, the Funds 
could have called the loan and accelerated the due date for the return of the principal 
(which was December 1, 2013).  No one associated with VERO Capital took any action to 
call the loan on the Funds’ behalf.     
        
       44.    In addition, Downey, who was responsible for valuation of certain of the 
Funds’ assets, did not mark down the value of the Cayden Note on either Fund’s balance 
sheet after Cayden defaulted on its interest payments on the Note.  This stood in sharp 
contrast to his decision to mark down the Envo and Tallas Notes in April 2012.  Nor did 
Downey or anyone else at VERO Capital inform U.S. Bank, the Funds’ administrator, that 
Cayden had defaulted on the Cayden Note until December 2013.  As a result of 
Respondents’ failure to mark down the value of the Cayden Note, the Funds’ assets under 
management were overstated and their losses understated in quarterly investor statements 
issued in March 2013 and later.   
        

                                           11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

       Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey Benefit from the Transfers to the VERO Affiliate 
 
       45.     Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey benefited from the transfers from the Funds.  
For example, from August to October 2013, when the $800,000 from the Master Fund 
account was the primary source of money for VERO Capital, Downey paid himself more 
than $125,000 in purported salary and expenses, purportedly earned as a result of work he 
had performed for the VERO affiliate.  Downey also directed $48,000 to Geiger to pay bills 
on his behalf, including business expenses due from the VERO affiliate, and wired another 
$40,000 to Barbaresi, all also representing purported compensation or reimbursement due 
from the VERO affiliate.   
        
       46.     In addition, at the time the VERO affiliate was a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of VERO Capital, which was co-owned by Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey, among others.  
The utilization of cash from the Funds to finance the VERO affiliate’s ongoing 
development and operations in 2012 and 2013 thus inured to the benefit of Geiger, 
Barbaresi, and Downey, as they stood to gain from any profits that the VERO affiliate 
ultimately generated.   
        
       VERO Capital Failed to Comply with the Custody Rule in 2012 and 2013 
        
       47.     As investment adviser to the Funds, VERO Capital held custody of Fund 
assets because it was authorized or permitted to withdraw money from the Master Fund’s 
custodial account.  Because VERO Capital had custody of client assets, Advisers Act Rule 
206(4)-2 required VERO Capital to, among other things, provide notice to investors in the 
Funds upon opening the account with U.S. Bank on their behalf, establish a reasonable 
belief upon due inquiry that U.S. Bank was delivering account statements to investors in 
the Fund at least quarterly, and undergo an annual surprise examination by an independent 
public accountant.  Alternatively, VERO Capital could have had the Funds audited 
annually by an independent public accountant that was registered with and subject to 
regular inspection by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and distribute 
audited financial statements prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting 
Principles to the investors in the Funds within 120 days of the Funds fiscal year end.  
VERO Capital did neither in 2012 and 2013.   
 
       E.      VIOLATIONS 
 
       48.     As a result of the conduct described above, VERO Capital, Geiger, 
                                6
Barbaresi, and Downey willfully   violated Sections 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act 
and Rule 206(4) -8 promulgated ther e under, which prohibit conduct by an investment 
adviser   that operates as a fraud.  
        

                                                  
6
  A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with 
the duty knows what he is doing.’”  Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 
2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 (D.C. Cir. 1949)). 

                                            12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       49.     As a result of the conduct described above, VERO Capital willfully violated 
Section 206(3) of the Advisers Act, which prohibits an investment adviser from, directly or 
indirectly, “acting as principal for his own account, knowingly to sell any security or to 
purchase any security from a client . . . without disclosing to such client in writing before 
the completion of such transaction the capacity in which he is acting and obtaining the 
consent of the client to such transaction.” 
        
       50.     As a result of the conduct described above, VERO Capital willfully violated 
Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-2 promulgated thereunder, which 
requires that an investment adviser maintain each client’s funds in bank accounts 
containing only those client funds, notify its clients about the place and manner in which 
their funds are maintained, and have client funds and securities verified by an independent 
public accountant at least once a year without prior notice to the investment adviser. 
        
       51.     As a result of the conduct described above, Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey 
willfully aided and abetted and caused VERO Capital’s violations of Sections 206(2), 
206(3), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 206(4)-2 and 206(4)-8 promulgated 
thereunder. 
        
       F.      UNDERTAKINGS 
        
       52.     Respondent VERO Capital has undertaken to cease investment advisory 
operations and deregister as an investment adviser within 180 days of entry of this Order.  
The 180 day limit shall not apply to VERO Capital’s role as a named plaintiff in the 
lawsuits captioned VERO Distressed ABS Opportunity Fund, B.V. et al. v. BC Warner 
Investments, L.C. et al., Civ. No. 149915059 (3rd Judicial Dist., Salt Lake Cty, Utah) and 
VERO Distressed ABS Opportunity Fund, B.V. et al. v. Jacobson et al., (3rd Judicial Dist., 
Salt Lake Cty, Utah (expected)) (collectively, the “Fund Lawsuits”). 
 
       53.     Respondent VERO Capital has undertaken to certify, in writing, compliance 
with the undertaking set forth above.  The certification shall identify the undertaking, 
provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and be supported by 
exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  The Commission staff may make 
reasonable requests for further evidence of compliance, and VERO Capital agrees to 
provide such evidence.  The certification and supporting material shall be submitted to 
Thomas P. Smith, Jr., Assistant Regional Director, with a copy to the Office of Chief 
Counsel of the Enforcement Division, no later than sixty days from the date of the 
completion of the undertakings. 
        
       54.     In determining whether to accept VERO Capital’s Offer, the Commission 
has considered these undertakings. 
        
        
        
        

                                            13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                            IV. 
 
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public 
interest to impose the sanctions agreed to in the Offers of Respondents VERO Capital, 
Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey. 
 
        Accordingly, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e), 203(f), 
and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, and Rule 
102(e)(1) of the Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
         
        A.    Respondents VERO Capital, Geiger, Barbaresi and Downey shall cease and 
desist from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of 
Sections 206(2), 206(3), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 206(4)-2 and 206(4)-8 
thereunder. 
         
        B.    Respondents Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey be, and hereby are: 
         
        barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, municipal 
        securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally recognized 
        statistical rating organization; provided however, that for a period of up to 180 days 
        from the entry of this Order, Respondents Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey may, 
        solely for the purposes of completing the wind down of the Funds, making final 
        payments and distributions to investors in those Funds, and preserving value for 
        those investors in the interim, (1) participate in advisory activities and (2) continue 
        to be associated with VERO Capital while VERO Capital acts as an investment 
        adviser.  The 180 day limit shall not apply to Respondents’ supervision of the Fund 
        Lawsuits.; and 
         
        prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member of an 
        advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal underwriter for, a 
        registered investment company or affiliated person of such investment adviser, 
        depositor, or principal underwriter; 
         
        with the right to apply for reentry after three (3) years to the appropriate self-
        regulatory organization, or if there is none, to the Commission. 
         
        C.    Any reapplication for association by any Respondent will be subject to the 
applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be 
conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any 
or all of the following:  (a) any disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or 
not the Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any 
arbitration award related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; 
(c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related 
to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any restitution 
order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct that served as 
the basis for the Commission order. 

                                            14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

        
       D.      Respondent VERO Capital is censured. 
 
       E.      Respondent Downey is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an accountant.   
 
       F.      After three years from the date of this Order, Respondent Downey may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application 
(attention: Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before 
the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation 
                      or review, of any public company’s financial statements that are 
                      filed with the Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that Respondent’s work in his/her practice before the 
                      Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit 
                      committee of the public company for which he works or in some 
                      other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
                      Commission in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
                      Commission that: 
      
                      a.      Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the Public Company 
                              Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with 
                              the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
                              continues to be effective; 
 
                      b.      Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
                              which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board 
                              and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
                              potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality 
                              control system that would indicate that the respondent will 
                              not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      c.      Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                              Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of 
                              any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
                              reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      d.      Respondent acknowledges his/her responsibility, as long as 
                              Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as 
                              an independent accountant, to comply with all requirements 
                              of the Commission and the Board, including, but not 
                              limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 

                                            15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                              inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
                              standards.   
 
       G.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Downey to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA 
license is current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state 
boards of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional 
conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       H.      Respondent Barbaresi is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an attorney for three years from the date of the Order.   
 
       I.      After three years from the date of the Order, Respondent Barbaresi may 
request that the Commission consider his application to resume appearing and practicing 
before the Commission as an attorney.  The application should be sent to the attention of 
the Office of the General Counsel. 
 
               1.      In support of such an application, Respondent must provide a 
                       certificate of good standing from each state bar where Respondent is 
                       a member.  
                
               2.      In support of such an application, Respondent must also submit an 
                       affidavit truthfully stating, under penalty of perjury:  
 
                       a.     that Respondent has complied with the Order; 
 
                       b.     that Respondent:  
 
                              i.      is not currently suspended or disbarred as an attorney 
                                      by a court of the United States (or any agency of the 
                                      United States) or the bar or court of any state, 
                                      territory, district, commonwealth, or possession; and  
 
                              ii.     since the entry of the Order, has not been suspended 
                                      as an attorney for an offense involving moral 
                                      turpitude by a court of the United States (or any 
                                      agency of the United States) or the bar or court of 
                                      any state, territory, district, commonwealth, or 
                                      possession, except for any suspension concerning the 
                                      conduct that was the basis for the Order; 
 
                       c.     that Respondent, since the entry of the Order, has not 
                              been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor involving 

                                            16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                               moral turpitude as set forth in Rule 102(e)(2) of the 
                               Commission’s Rules of Practice; and  
 
                       d.      that Respondent, since the entry of the Order: 
 
                               i.     has not been found by the Commission or a 
                                      court of the United States to have committed 
                                      a violation of the federal securities laws, 
                                      except for any finding concerning the 
                                      conduct that was the basis for the Order; 
 
                               ii.    has not been charged by the Commission or 
                                      the United States with a violation of the 
                                      federal securities laws, except for any charge 
                                      concerning the conduct that was the basis for 
                                      the Order;   
 
                               iii.   has not been found by a court of the United 
                                      States (or any agency of the United States) or 
                                      any state, territory, district, commonwealth, 
                                      or possession, or any bar thereof, to have  
                                      committed an offense involving moral 
                                      turpitude, except for any finding concerning 
                                      the conduct that was the basis for the Order; 
                                      and 
 
                               iv.    has not been charged by the United States (or 
                                      any agency of the United States) or any state, 
                                      territory, district, commonwealth, or 
                                      possession, or any bar thereof, with having 
                                      committed an offense involving moral 
                                      turpitude, except for any charge concerning 
                                      the conduct that was the basis for the Order. 
                
       J.      If Respondent Barbaresi provides the documentation required in Paragraph 
I, and the Commission determines that he truthfully attested to each of the items required in 
his affidavit, he shall by Commission order be permitted to resume appearing and 
practicing before the Commission as an attorney.   
        
       K.      If Respondent Barbaresi is not able to truthfully attest to the statements 
required in Subparagraphs I(2)(b)(ii) or I(2)(d), Respondent shall provide an explanation as 
to the facts and circumstances pertaining to the matter and the Commission may hold a 
hearing to determine whether there is good cause to permit him to resume appearing and 
practicing before the Commission as an attorney. 
 

                                             17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

       L.     Respondents VERO Capital, Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey, jointly and 
severally, shall pay disgorgement of $2,879,623, and prejudgment interest of $189,083.35, 
for a total of $3,068,706.35, to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Payment shall be 
made in the following installments:  $1,534,353.18 within 180 days of the entry of the 
Order; and $1,534,353.17 within 360 days of the entry of the Order.  If any payment is not 
made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of 
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued 
pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 shall be due and payable immediately, without 
further application.  Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
              1.      Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the 
                      Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire 
                      instructions upon request;  
        
              2.      Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via 
                      Pay.gov through the SEC website at 
                      http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
        
              3.      Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or 
                      United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities 
                      and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
identifying VERO Capital, Geiger, Barbaresi, or Downey as a Respondent in these 
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check 
or money order must be sent to Amelia A. Cottrell, Division of Enforcement, Securities and 
Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, NY 10281.     
 
       M.     Respondents VERO Capital, Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey shall each pay 
a civil money penalty in the amount of $300,000 to the Securities and Exchange 
Commission.  Payment shall be made in the following installments:  each shall make a 
payment of $150,000 within 180 days of the entry of the Order; and each shall make a 
payment of $150,000 within 360 days of the entry of the Order.  If any payment is not 
made by the date the payment is required by this Order, the entire outstanding balance of 
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, and civil penalties, plus any additional interest accrued 
pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600 or pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717, shall be due and 
payable immediately, without further application.  Payment must be made in one of the 
following ways:   
 

                                           18 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

               1.     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the         
                      Commission, which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire  
                      instructions upon request;  
 
               2.     Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via  
                      Pay.gov through the SEC website at                            
                      http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
 
               3.      Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or  
                      United States postal money order, made payable to the Securities  
                      and Exchange Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
identifying VERO Capital, Geiger, Barbaresi, or Downey as a Respondent in these 
proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check 
or money order must be sent to Amelia A. Cottrell, Division of Enforcement, Securities and 
Exchange Commission, 200 Vesey Street, Suite 400, New York, NY 10281. 
 
                                               V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in 
Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true 
and admitted by Respondents Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey, and further, any debt for 
disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondents 
Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey under this Order or any other judgment, order, consent 
order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt 
for the violation by Respondents Geiger, Barbaresi, and Downey of the federal securities 
laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of 
the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 
        
 
 
 

                                            19 
