---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                       Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70561 / September 30, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3499 / September 30, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15532 
                                       
In the Matter of                       
                                          ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE  
      MICHAEL McGRATH, CPA                PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE  
                                          102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
Respondent.                               PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                          IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 

 
                                           I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Michael 
McGrath (“McGrath” or “Respondent”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s Rules 
of Practice.1
             
                                            
                                            
                                            
                                          II. 
 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
      The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3. below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      McGrath, age 59, was a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the 
State of Illinois, but that license became inactive in 1986.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of 
Mercantile Bancorp (“Mercantile”) from 1986 until his termination in 2012. 
        
              2.      Mercantile was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation and bank 
holding company with its principal place of business in Quincy, Illinois.  Through its subsidiary 
banks, Mercantile conducted a consumer and commercial banking business and its securities were 
registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the 
NYSE Amex under the symbol MBR.  In December 2011, Mercantile filed a Form 15 Certification 
and Notice of Termination of Registration.  After the relevant time period, the FDIC closed two of 
Mercantile’s three subsidiary banks.  On June 27, 2013, Mercantile filed a bankruptcy petition. 
 
              3.      On September 24, 2013, the Commission filed a complaint against McGrath 
in SEC v. Mercantile Bancorp, et al. (Civil Action No. 3:13-cv-3341).  On September 26, 2013, the 
court entered an order permanently enjoining McGrath, by consent, from future violations of 
Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and 
Rules 10b-5, 13a-14, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder, and aiding and abetting future violations of 
Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-13 
thereunder.  McGrath was also ordered to pay a $100,000 civil penalty and barred from serving as 
an officer or director of a public company. 
 
              4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that generally 
accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) required Mercantile to disclose a probable, material loss 
in an amended S-1 filing and to recognize that loss in Mercantile’s Form 10-Q for the third quarter 
of 2010.  Mercantile—through former CEO Ted Awerkamp and former CFO McGrath—did 
neither.  Because it did not recognize that loss in its third quarter financial statements, Mercantile 
was able to (i) falsely state that its main subsidiary bank had met certain capital ratio thresholds 
required by the FDIC; (ii) understate its net loss for the quarter and the nine months ending 
September 30 th
               as $7.5 million and $11 million (instead of at least $12.78 million and at least 
$16.28 million); and (iii) falsely state that its main subsidiary bank had net income of $1.8 million 
for first nine months of 2010 when it actually had a net loss of at least $3.48 million during that 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

period.  The complaint also alleges that McGrath and Awerkamp misled Mercantile’s outside 
auditor and circumvented the company’s internal accounting controls. 
        
                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent McGrath ’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     McGrath is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant.   
 
 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                   Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                   Secretary 
 

                                               3  
