---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                         Before the 
                                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
               
              SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
              Release No. 75843 / September 4, 2015 
               
              ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
              Release No. 3681 / September 4, 2015 
               
              ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
              File No. 3-16783 

              In the Matter of                                        ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                                      ADMINISTRATIVE  
                                                                      PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
                                  RAYMON HOLMDAHL, CPA, and 
                                                                      SECTION 4C OF THE SECURITIES 
               
                                                                      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 AND RULE 
                                  KANAKO MATSUMOTO, CPA, 
                                                                     102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
              Respondents.                                            PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                                     IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS  
                                                                            
               
                                                                 
                                                             I. 

                     The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
              public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
                         1
              Section 4C   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e) of the 
                                              2
              Commission’s Rules of Practice  against Raymon Holmdahl, CPA, and Kanako Matsumoto, 
              CPA (collectively, “Respondents”). 

                                                               
              1
                      Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 

              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
              privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . to have 
              engaged in … improper professional conduct. 

              2
                      Rule  102(e)  (1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 

              The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing 
              before it . . . to any person who is found...to have engaged in … improper professional conduct. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 

       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have each submitted an 
Offer of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 

                                               III. 

                                                                                 3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds    that : 

A.     SUMMARY 

       1.      These proceedings arise out of Respondents’ improper professional conduct during 
Peterson Sullivan, LLP’s (“Peterson Sullivan”) audit of a private investment fund’s financial 
statements for fiscal year 2013 (“FY2013”).  Raymon Holmdahl and Kanako Matsumoto served as 
the partner and manager, respectively, on this engagement to audit the financial statements of 
Summit Stable Value Fund (“SSVF”), a private pooled investment vehicle advised by Summit 
Asset Strategies Investment Management, LLC (“Investment Management”).    

       2.      SSVF’s audited financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2013, which 
Investment Management provided to SSVF’s investors, materially overstated the value of the fund’s 
assets by approximately $1.69 million.  Because Investment Management was entitled to receive 
SSVF’s net fund profits as its compensation for advising SSVF, the overstatement allowed 
Investment Management to withdraw significantly more money from SSVF than was authorized 
under the terms of the fund’s private placement memorandum (“PPM”).   

       3.      Respondents caused Peterson Sullivan to issue an audit report containing an opinion 
that SSVF’s financial statements for the period ended December 31, 2013, which included the 
valuations of the fund’s assets and Investment Management’s draws from the fund, were presented 
fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with general accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”).  
Peterson Sullivan’s audit report also stated that the audit was conducted in accordance with auditing 
standards generally accepted in the United States.  However, Respondents’ audit failed to comply 
with numerous American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) auditing standards, 
the applicable professional standards for the audit of SSVF.  These included failing to obtain 
sufficient appropriate audit evidence about the existence of certain fund assets, failing to exercise 
appropriate professional judgment and professional skepticism, and failing to properly supervise the 
financial statement audit.  Respondent Holmdahl also authorized the issuance of a report with an 
                                                 
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to each Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

inaccurate audit opinion.  Peterson Sullivan voluntarily withdrew its audit report for SSVF’s 2013 
financial statements based on the material overstatement of SSVF’s valuation and ownership 
interest in certain of its assets.  Respondents’ conduct, as described below, constituted improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1) and (2).   

B.     RESPONDENTS 

       4.     Raymon Holmdahl, CPA, 57, resides in Lake Forest Park, Washington.  
Holmdahl is currently a partner at Peterson Sullivan, an accounting firm registered with the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”), and has worked for Peterson 
Sullivan since 1980.  Holmdahl served as the engagement partner for Peterson Sullivan’s 
FY2013 audit of SSVF and related audit work, and served as an engagement partner for audits of 
public companies.  Holmdahl is a certified public accountant licensed in Washington State.   
        
       5.     Kanako Matsumoto, CPA, 50, resides in Seattle, Washington.  Matsumoto is 
currently a senior manager at Peterson Sullivan, and initially joined the firm in 1999.  
Matsumoto served as the manager for Peterson Sullivan’s FY2013 audit of SSVF and related 
audit work, and has worked on audits of several broker-dealers.  Matsumoto is a certified public 
accountant licensed in Washington State.    

C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       6.     Summit Asset Strategies Investment Management, LLC (“Investment 
Management”) is a Washington limited liability company based in Bellevue, Washington and 
served as the investment adviser to three private investment funds, including SSVF.  During the 
relevant timeframe, Investment Management, through its principal/CEO, made investment 
decisions on behalf of SSVF and was entitled to receive SSVF’s net fund profits as its 
compensation.  
        
       7.     Summit Stable Value Fund, LLC (“SSVF”) is a Washington limited liability 
company based in Bellevue, Washington.  SSVF is a private pooled investment vehicle formed 
by Investment Management’s principal in 2010 and was at all times advised by Investment 
Management. 

D.     FACTS 

       Investment Management Materially Overstated the Value of SSVF’s Assets 
 
       8.     According to SSVF’s PPM, Investment Management was entitled to receive 
SSVF’s net fund profits as compensation for its work in advising SSVF.  The PPM permitted 
Investment Management to withdraw estimated “net fund profits” (defined as the profit less 
principal, interest payments, and fund expenses) from the fund on a monthly basis, but also 
required Investment Management to “true up” any distributions to match net fund profits as 
“determined in the Fund’s annual audit.”  Accordingly, it was important for Investment 
Management to properly value SSVF’s assets, as its compensation was specifically tied to the 
unrealized gains and losses in those assets each year.     
        

                                              3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       9.      Investment Management caused SSVF to materially overstate its asset values in 
its FY2013 financial statements.  Specifically, Investment Management falsely claimed that 
SSVF had purchased 500,000 shares of an entity called Prime Pacific Bank in December 2012.  
Because the Prime Pacific Bank security was purportedly illiquid, Investment Management 
developed a financial model to value this asset.  For FY2013, this model showed that SSVF’s 
interest in Prime Pacific Bank had more than tripled in value from the shares’ purported purchase 
price of $1.00 per share to $3.22 per share by the end of the fiscal year.  As such, SSVF’s 
FY2013 financial statements presented the value of the claimed Prime Pacific Bank security as 
approximately $1.6 million.  The putative increase in Prime Pacific Bank’s value enabled 
Investment Management to withdraw significantly more money as net fund profits from SSVF 
than it would otherwise have been entitled to under the terms of SSVF’s PPM. 
        
       10.    In reality, SSVF did not own any shares of Prime Pacific Bank.  Instead, SSVF 
held 250,000 shares in a different entity, Prime Pacific Financial Services, Inc. (“PPFS”), which 
had a quoted trading price ranging between $0.27 per share to $0.70 per share in 2012 and 2013.  
Accordingly, SSVF’s interest in PPFS had a value worth less than $175,000 at fiscal year-end 
2013.  As a result of these irregularities, SSVF’s financial statements for FY2013 were 
materially overstated.  
 
       Respondents’ Deficient FY2013 Audit 

       11.    Peterson Sullivan’s audit report for SSVF’s FY2013 financial statements states 
that the audit was conducted in accordance with “auditing standards generally accepted in the 
                                                                                              4
United States.”  These standards are codified by AICPA professional auditing standards.         
Holmdahl, as  engagement    partner, was responsible for  supervising the audit team and   reviewing 
audit work for  compli  ance  with these professional standards.   Holmdahl  was also responsible for 
considering whether   the audit team adequately documented in the work     ing  papers their findings, 
analysis, and information upon which they relied    , and that the working papers provided a 
reasonable basis to render  an  audit opinion.   Matsumoto, as audit manager, was principally 
responsible for performing the audit procedures   , supervising  junior staff, and assisting Holmdahl 
in his role as engagement partner  .   

       12.     During the FY2013 audit, Holmdahl approved the audit program and reviewed the 
working papers with Matsumoto.  At the outset, Holmdahl and Matsumoto each recognized that 
the presentation of SSVF’s asset values posed “significant” risk, and could result in a material 
misstatement of the fund’s financial statements.  In addition, Respondents were aware that the 
fund’s predecessor auditor had disagreed with Investment Management’s valuation of the 
purported Prime Pacific Bank security and subsequently resigned due to its inability to “gather 
adequate audit evidence to support audit opinions” regarding, among other things, the existence 
and valuation of assets, during the FY2013 audit.  In response to these heightened risks, 

                                                 
4
       GAAS and the professional standards applicable to the preparation and issuance of audit reports 
are embodied in Statements on Auditing Standards, as issued by the Auditing Standards Board of the 
AICPA and codified in the U.S. Auditing Standards-AICPA (clarified).   Relevant auditing standards will 
be referenced as “AU-C” herein. 

                                                   4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Respondents specifically planned in their audit procedures to rely on third-party confirmation of 
all investment account balances and investment income.   

       13.    Despite knowledge of these risks, Respondents failed to perform the fund’s 
FY2013 audit in accordance with AICPA standards, particularly with respect to the fund’s 
investments.  Among the deficiencies, Respondents failed: (i) to obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence about the existence of certain fund assets; (ii) to exercise appropriate professional 
judgment and professional skepticism; and (iii) to properly supervise the financial statement audit.  
Respondent Holmdahl, as engagement partner, also authorized the issuance of a report with an 
inaccurate audit opinion.  As a result of these deficiencies, Respondents caused Peterson Sullivan 
to issue an unmodified opinion with respect to the fund’s materially overstated financial 
statements. 

       Respondents Failed to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence Regarding the 
       Fund’s Purported Investment in Prime Pacific Bank 

       14.    AICPA Auditing Standards (“AU-C”) require the auditor to “obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence … on which to base the auditor’s opinion…” (AU-C § 500.04) and to 
“…design and perform audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances for the purpose 
of obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence.” (AU-C § 500.06). 
        
       15.    Professional standards also require the auditor (1) to “perform substantive 
procedures for all relevant assertions related to each material class of transactions, account 
balance, and disclosure” (AU-C § 330.18); (2) to “design and implement overall responses to 
address the assessed risks of material misstatement at the financial statement level” (AU-C 
330.05); (3) to “design and perform further audit procedures whose nature, timing, and extent are 
based on, and are responsive to, the assessed risks of material misstatement at the relevant 
assertion level” (AU-C 330.06); and (4) to “consider whether external confirmation procedures 
are to be performed as substantive audit procedures” (AU-C 330.19).  
        
       16.    Respondents planned to obtain audit evidence of SSVF’s investments through 
third party confirmation, but ultimately failed to send third party confirmation letters for the 
fund’s purported investment in Prime Pacific Bank.  Despite repeatedly recognizing in their 
workpapers the need for heightened scrutiny, Respondents did not confirm the fund’s investment 
in PPFS with the bank or any third party for purposes of auditing the investment balance.  In 
failing to follow their own audit plan, Respondents did not learn that the fund’s purported Prime 
Pacific Bank investment did not exist.  Had they executed on their plan to confirm the existence 
of investments, Respondents would have likely learned that SSVF’s claimed investment in Prime 
Pacific Bank was nonexistent, and that it should not have been included in the fund’s FY2013 
financial statements.    

       17.    In the absence of performing the planned third party confirmations, Respondents 
did not perform alternative or additional procedures to test the existence of SSVF’s purported 
investment in Prime Pacific Bank.  Indeed, the working papers do not reflect any audit 
procedures taken by Respondents to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence relevant to the 
existence of the Prime Pacific Bank security.  

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       Respondents Committed Similar Failures With Respect to Other Assets Included in 
       SSVF’s Financial Statements 

       18.    Respondents similarly failed to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence for 
two other assets reported in the fund’s FY2013 financial statements:  (1) SSVF’s claimed 
investment in a Korean entity called Summit Asset Strategies Korea Co. Ltd. (“SASK”), which 
purportedly was a management consulting services company; and (2) SSVF’s claimed $3.6 
million receivable from SASK.  For instance, Respondents planned to test the existence of 
SSVF’s investment in SASK through third party confirmations, but ultimately failed to do so.  
The workpapers otherwise reflect that Respondents did not perform other audit procedures to test 
the existence of these supposed assets or perform any alternative procedures to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence regarding the existence of these assets.  These assets were significant 
to SSVF’s FY2013 financial statements and comprised 63% of the fund’s reported assets as of 
fiscal year-end 2013.   
 
       Respondents Failed to Exercise Appropriate Professional Judgment and Professional 
       Skepticism 

       19.    Under GAAS, auditors must exercise appropriate professional judgment and 
professional skepticism.  (AU-C §200.08.)  Professional skepticism includes demonstrating a 
questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  (AU-C § 200.14).  In addition, 
AU-C §200.17 requires auditors to “plan and perform an audit with professional skepticism, 
recognizing that circumstances may exist that cause the financial statements to be materially 
misstated.”  

       20.    Respondents did not exercise the appropriate professional judgment when 
conducting the audit and issuing an opinion on SSVF’s financial statements for FY2013.  
Respondents’ assessment of the risks posed by SSVF’s asset values should have caused them to 
place greater emphasis on obtaining sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the existence 
of the fund’s investments.  They did not.  The working papers do not document any audit 
procedures taken by Respondents to address these risks. 

       Respondents Failed to Properly Supervise the Financial Statement Audit 

       21.     GAAS requires the engagement partner to “take responsibility for the … 
direction, supervision, and performance of the audit engagement in compliance with professional 
standards….” (AU-C § 220.17).  “The engagement partner should take responsibility for reviews 
being performed in accordance with the firm’s review policies and procedures.”  (AU-C § 
220.18).  Moreover, the engagement partner should review the audit documentation, have 
discussions with the audit engagement team and “be satisfied that sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence has been obtained to support the conclusions reached and for the auditor’s report to be 
issued.”  (AU-C § 220.19). 
        
       22.    Holmdahl failed to adequately supervise the FY2013 audit.  Although Holmdahl 
appreciated the significant risks posed by the fund’s valuations – as demonstrated by his 
approval of the audit plan – he did not adequately review the audit documentation to satisfy 

                                               6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

himself that sufficient appropriate audit evidence was obtained about the existence of the fund’s 
purported investments in Prime Pacific Bank and SASK.   
        
       23.    GAAS provides that the engagement partner may use the assistance of other 
members of the engagement team and delegate certain procedures.  (AU-C § 220.6 and (AU-C § 
220.10).   Matsumoto did not adequately supervise and review the audit team’s response to the 
risk of material misstatement for SSVF’s assets.  Matsumoto knew that SSVF’s asset values 
posed risks during the audit and planned to perform third party confirmations for SSVF’s 
purported Prime Pacific Bank investment.  Notwithstanding the plan, Matsumoto did not 
adequately review the work of junior staff members to consider whether: (i) the nature, timing, 
and extent of the work performed is appropriate and without need for revision; (ii) the work 
performed supports the conclusions reached and is appropriately documented; (iii) the evidence 
obtained is sufficient and appropriate to support the auditor’s report; and (iv) the objectives of 
the engagement procedures have been achieved. 
 
       Holmdahl Was Responsible For Authorizing the Issuance of a Report with an Inaccurate 
       Audit Opinion 

       24.    GAAS requires an unmodified opinion to state that the financial statements are 
presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the applicable financial reporting 
framework, which, in the case of SSVF, is US-GAAP.  (AU-C §700.35).  An auditor should 
modify its opinion when it concludes that the financial statements as a whole are materially 
misstated or is unable to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to conclude that they are 
free from material misstatement.  (AU-C §705.07). 
        
       25.    As audit partner with ultimate responsibility for SSVF’s financial statement audit 
for FY2013, Holmdahl approved the issuance of an audit report containing an unmodified 
opinion.  However, the fund’s financial statements materially overstated its assets and “net fund 
profits,” and as such, Peterson Sullivan should not have issued an audit report containing an 
unmodified opinion.  Peterson Sullivan has since withdrawn its report and opinion based on the 
material overstatement of SSVF’s valuation and ownership interest in its assets.  

E.     VIOLATIONS 

       26.    Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice define improper professional conduct with respect to persons licensed to 
practice as accountants.  Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice provide that, with respect to persons licensed to practice as 
accountants, negligent improper professional conduct includes either (1) “[a] single instance of 
highly unreasonable conduct that results in a violation of applicable professional standards in 
circumstances in which an accountant knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is 
warranted,” or (2) “[r]epeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation of 
applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.” 

       27.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents engaged in improper 
professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(1)&(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  Respondents engaged in a 
single instance of highly unreasonable conduct where heightened scrutiny was warranted, or 
alternatively, repeated instances of unreasonable conduct indicating a lack of competence to 
practice before the Commission.   

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest 
to impose the sanctions agreed to in each Respondent’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

       A.     Holmdahl is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant. 
        
       B.     Matsumoto is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant.  

       C.     After three years from the date of this order, either Respondent may request that 
the Commission consider his or her reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office 
of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 

              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that their work in their practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which they work or in some other acceptable manner, as long as they practice before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 

              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 

                      (a)    Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he or she is 
associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 
and such registration continues to be effective; 

                      (b)    Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
or she is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection did not identify any 
criticisms of or potential defects in the quality control system relating to the work of Respondent 
that will indicate that Respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the PCAOB, 
and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other 
than reinstatement by the Commission); and 

                      (d)    Respondent acknowledges his or her responsibility, as long as he 
or she appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with 

                                               8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

all requirements of the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, engagement quality reviews, and quality 
control standards.   

       D.      The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing 
or practicing before the Commission provided that his or her CPA license is current and he or 
she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable boards of accountancy.  
However, if CPA licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice 
before the Commission. 

       By the Commission. 

 

 

                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                             Secretary 

                                                9 
 
