---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                         Before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73609 / November 14, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3598 / November 14, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16278 
                                                ORDER INSTITUTING  
                                                ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(b) OF THE  
In the Matter of                                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
CHARLES ELLIOT SMITH, CPA             COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE,
                                                                                           
Respondent.                                                                 
 
 
 
 
                                              I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to 
Section 15(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. §§ 78o(b)] and 
                                                                             1
Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice [17 C.F.R. § 201.102(e)(3)] against Charles 
Elliot Smith (“Respondent”).   
                                                
                                             II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 

                                                 
1
 Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings and the findings contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 15(b) 
of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, 
and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that: 
 
       1.      Smith, 57 years old, is a resident of Rockwall, Texas.  He is the founder and co-
principal of Yorkdale Capital, LLC (“Yorkdale”), along with his brother Mark Smith.  From 1983 
to the present, Smith has also been a self-employed accountant, doing business as Charles E. 
Smith, CPA.  Smith obtained his CPA certificate in Massachusetts.  He transferred it to Texas in 
1982.  Smith previously held securities licenses, which are now expired.  Smith has also served as 
an officer and/or director of various penny stock issuers, and has participated in offerings of penny 
stocks. 
        
       2.      On October 31, 2014, the Commission filed a complaint against Smith and his 
brother Mark Smith in Securities and Exchange Commission v. Charles Elliot Smith, et al., Civil 
Action Number 3:14-cv-03874-D in the United States District Court for the Northern District of 
Texas.   On October 31, 2014, the court entered an order permanently enjoining Smith, by consent, 
from future violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933 (“Securities Act”) [15 U.S.C. 
§§ 77q(a)] and Sections 10(b), 13(b)(5), and 15(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b), 
78m(b)(5), and 78o(a)] and Rules 10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder [17 C.F.R. §§ 240.10b-1and 
240.13b2-1], and from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 15(d) of 
the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A), and 78o(d)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-
11, 13a-13, 13b2-2, 15d-1, and 15d-13 thereunder [17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-1, 240.13a-
11, 240.13a-13, 240.13b2-2, 240.15d-1, and 240.15d-13], ordering him to pay, jointly and 
severally with Mark Smith, disgorgement with prejudgment interest of $78,750.52, to pay a civil 
penalty of $150,000, and imposing five-year penny stock and officer and director bars. 
        
       3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged that, among other things, since at least 2006, 
Smith, along with his brother Mark Smith, Yorkdale and other affiliates, formed and operated at 
least eight publicly-traded shell companies, caused four of those shell companies to make offerings 
of penny stocks, and caused each of the shell companies to be sold through reverse merger 
transactions, all without complying with the Commission’s rules and regulations applicable to shell 
company registration and reporting.  The complaint further alleged that in connection with the 
offer, purchase and sale of securities of the shell companies, Smith engaged in a fraudulent scheme 
and made and caused to be made various materially false and misleading statements that, among 
other things, hid his, his brother Mark Smith’s, Yorkdale’s and/or various affiliates’ control of the 
shell companies, misstated the intended uses of proceeds from the securities offerings, misstated 
the role of the named officers and directors of the companies and failed to disclose various 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

compensation to be paid to Smith, Mark Smith, Yorkdale and their affiliates.  The complaint 
further alleged that Charles Smith falsely applied the signature of one of the shell companies’ chief 
executive officers to two Commission filings, without that officer’s consent or knowledge.  The 
complaint further alleged that, in connection with the offer and sale of the shell companies’ 
securities, Smith acted as an unregistered broker and as an unregistered dealer. 
 
                                                IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondent Smith’s Offer. 
 
       A.     Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED pursuant Section 15(b)(6) of the Exchange 
Act, Respondent Smith be, and hereby is barred from association with any broker, dealer, 
investment adviser, municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally 
recognized statistical rating organization with the right to apply for reentry after five years to the 
appropriate self-regulatory organization, or if there is none, to the Commission.    
 
       Any reapplication for association by the Respondent will be subject to the applicable laws 
and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be conditioned upon a number of 
factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of the following:  (a) any 
disgorgement ordered against the Respondent, whether or not the Commission has fully or partially 
waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any arbitration award related to the conduct that served 
as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a 
customer, whether or not related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; 
and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory organization, whether or not related to the conduct 
that served as the basis for the Commission order. 
        
       B.     It is further ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3) of the Commission’s Rules of 
Practice, 
        
               1.      Respondent is suspended from appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as an accountant. 
                
               2.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
       Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
       the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
                       a.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
               review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
               Commission.  Such an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s 
               work in his/her practice before the Commission will be reviewed either by the 
               independent audit committee of the public company for which he/she works or in 
               some other acceptable manner, as long as he/she practices before the Commission 
               in this capacity; and/or 
                             

                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                       b.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
               Commission that: 
        
                             i.       Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he/she 
                     is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
                     Board (“Board” ) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
                     such registration continues to be effective; 
                               
                            ii.       Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with 
                     which he/she is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                     inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                     respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that the 
                     respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 
                               
                            iii.       Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                     Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                     imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                               
                            iv.       Respondent acknowledges his/her responsibility, as long as 
                     Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                     accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the 
                     Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to registration, 
                     inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
        
       The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume appearing or 
practicing before the Commission provided that his/her state CPA license is current and he/she has 
resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  However, if 
state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission will consider an 
application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include consideration of, in 
addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, 
integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
        
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary       
 
 
 
 

                                                 4  
