---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                Before the 
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75028 / May 21, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3658 / May 21, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16171 
 
                                                             
In the Matter of                                      ORDER MAKING FINDING S AND 
                                                      IMPOSING REMEDIAL SA NCTIONS, 
        MAYER HOFFMAN McCANN,                         CENSURE, AND A CEASE -AND-DESIST 
        P.C.                                          ORDER PURSUANT TO SE CTIONS 4C 
                                                      AND 21C OF THE EXCHA NGE ACT AND 
Respondent.                                           RULE 102(e)(1)(ii) OF THE 
                                                       COMMISSION’S RULES O                              
                                                              

                                                            
 
                                                      I.  
 
        On September 25, 2014, the Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) issued 
the Order Instituting Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 
   1
4C   and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules 
           2
of Practice  and Notice of Hearing against Ma      yer Hoffman McCann P.C. (“MHM” or 
                                                 
1
        Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:    
 
                The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
                to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
                any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to pos   sess the requisite qualifications 
                to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
                engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
                violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, a     ny provision of the 
                securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder.       
 
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:    
 
                Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing before it . . . to any   person who is found . . . to have 
                engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.          
---------------------Page 2---------------------

“Respondent”).  Respondent has submitted an Offer of Settlement (“Offer”) which the 
Commission has determined to accept. 

                                                II. 

       Solely for the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on 
behalf of the Commission, or in which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying 
the findings contained in the Order, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the 
subject matter of these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this 
Order Making Findings and Imposing Remedial Sanctions, Censure, and a Cease-and-Desist Order 
Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice (“Order”) as set forth below. 

                                                III. 

                                                                               3      
       On the basis of this Order and the Offer of MHM, the Commission finds     that: 
        
                                           SUMMARY 
 
       Mayer Hoffman McCann P.C. (“MHM”) is a public accounting firm associated with CBIZ, 
Inc. (“CBIZ”), a publicly traded company, through a business model referred to as an alternative 
practice structure (“APS”).  CBIZ’s APS model with MHM utilizes an administrative service 
agreement (“ASA”) under which MHM leases from CBIZ virtually all of the human capital, 
equipment and overhead MHM requires to perform its attest work, in exchange for a majority of 
MHM’s revenue. 
        
       CBIZ is an associated entity of MHM, and CBIZ and MHM are viewed as a single entity 
for Commission auditor independence purposes. 
        
       MHM has numerous attest clients that file reports with the Commission. One of those 
clients was Tradebot Systems, Inc. “(Tradebot”), a privately-owned registered broker-dealer with 
no customers.  Pursuant to Rule 17a-5 promulgated under Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act, 
Tradebot is required to file annual reports with the Commission containing financial statements 
audited by an independent public accountant (“Annual Reports”). 
        
       MHM audited Tradebot’s Annual Reports from 2004 through 2012.  From 2008 to at least 
2013, Tradebot periodically invested in CBIZ stock (using an alogorithmic computerized trading 
program), thereby impairing MHM’s independence with respect to its audits of Tradebot’s 2008 
through 2012 financial statements.  As a result, Tradebot’s Annual Reports did not comply with 
Rule 17a-5 for those periods. 
        
       In addition to MHM’s independence violations related to the Tradebot audits, MHM’s 
procedures were deficient to prevent such independence violations for all of its broker-dealer and 
investment fund audit clients.  

                                                 
3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not 
binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   

                                                 2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
       MHM lacked an appropriate system of quality controls to detect transactions in CBIZ stock 
by its attest clients in order to ensure that those engagements complied with the firm’s legal and 
ethical requirements.  MHM’s quality control and audit procedures failed to meet adequate 
professional standards with respect to its audits of Tradebot. 
        
       During the audit of its 2012 year, Tradebot was made aware that trading in CBIZ stock 
would impair MHM’s independence.  Tradebot continued to trade in CBIZ stock.  
        
A.     RESPONDENT 
        
       1.     Mayer Hoffman McCann P.C., is a Missouri professional corporation 
headquartered in Leawood, Kansas, with offices throughout the U.S.  MHM’s Commission-related 
attest practice includes registered broker-dealers, investment funds and publicly traded companies.   
 
B.     RELATED ENTITIES 
 
       2.     CBIZ, Inc., is a Delaware corporation headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, that 
provides products and services to businesses throughout the U.S.  CBIZ associates with several 
U.S. public accounting firms through its APS model, with MHM being the largest.  CBIZ’s stock 
is traded on the New York Stock Exchange. 
        
       3.     Tradebot Systems, Inc., is a broker dealer registered with the Commission, and is 
located in Kansas City, Missouri. 
 
C.     FACTS 

       4.     In about 1996, CBIZ began using the APS model to expand its revenue base by 
acquiring the non-attest practices of public accounting firms and forming relationships with those 
public accounting firms by means of ASAs.   
        
       5.     From about 1998 to present, CBIZ entered into periodic ASAs with MHM which 
provide, among other things, that virtually all of MHM’s shareholders are salaried employees of 
CBIZ and are leased to MHM along with other CBIZ professional and non-professional staff, 
office space, equipment, and marketing and other services, to enable MHM to perform its attest 
practice, in exchange for approximately 85% of MHM’s revenues. 
 
       6.     On November 2, 1998, the Commission’s Office of Chief Accountant (“OCA”) 
became aware of CBIZ’s use of the APS model and its acquisition of non-attest practices of 
accounting firms.  OCA notified CBIZ of the application of the Commission’s independence rules: 
 
       [Y]our affiliation with certain accounting firms … may subject you to the 
       application of the independence rules set forth in Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X. 
        
       . . . [A]ny accounting firm and the acquirer (“acquirer”) of that accounting firm 
       that employs any accountants that work on SEC clients of the accounting firm 
       should continue to fully comply with the SEC’s independence requirements.  

                                               3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        
       In determining whether an accountant may in fact not be independent with 
       respect to a particular person, the Commission will give appropriate consideration 
       to all relevant circumstances, including evidence bearing on all relationships 
       between the accountant and that person or any affiliate thereof and will not 
       confine itself to the relationships existing in connection with the filing of reports 
       with the Commission. 
        
       7.      On August 13, 1999, OCA sent guidance to CBIZ related to independence 
disclosures provided in a CBIZ Form S-4 filing then under review.  In that letter, OCA stated:  
 
       [T]he Commission and the staff are concerned about the significant public policy 
       issues that are raised in situations where audits of public companies are 
       performed by auditors under an alternative business structure.  . . . [CBIZ] has 
       acquired the non-attest businesses of several accounting firms (“the Attest 
       Firms”) that have audited clients required to file financial statements with the 
       [Commission]. . . .  
 
       . . . [I]n the application of the independence rules, the SEC staff will view [CBIZ] 
       and all Attest Firms as a single entity.  As a result, [CBIZ] must abide by all of 
       the independence rules that the Attest Firm must follow in order for the Attest 
       Firm to be independent of an SEC audit client. . . . 
        
       The revised disclosure should also state that an Attest Firm would not be 
       independent from entities involved in the [CBIZ] offering process and in making 
       a market for or otherwise facilitating the trading of [CBIZ] shares in the 
       secondary market.  Accordingly, the revised document should indicate that an 
       Attest Firm’s independence would be impaired with respect to all members of the  
       syndicate underwriting the [CBIZ] offering and to broker-dealer firms that 
       exercise discretionary buy and sell authority over customer accounts holding 
       significant positions in [CBIZ] or employ securities analysts who follow [CBIZ]. 
        
       Further, the disclosure should indicate that because [CBIZ] and its officers, 
       directors and affiliates, and the Attest Firm are viewed as one entity for purposes 
       of the independence rules, [CBIZ] or its officers, directors or affiliates would 
       impair the independence of the Attest Firms if they held any financial interest in 
       or entered into any business relationships with or sold any services to an SEC 
       audit client of an Attest Firm that the Attest Firm itself would be precluded from 
       under the SEC independence rules. 
        
On this same date, CBIZ sent correspondence to OCA stating that CBIZ and the CPA 
firms with which it had a relationship through an ASA believed that the CPA firms could 
perform audits on SEC reporting clients holding 5% or less of CBIZ stock.   
 
       8.      In 2000, the Commission promulgated an extensive revision of its auditor 
independence requirements under Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X.  17 C.F.R. § 210.2-01.  The 
revised rule was adopted in response to “an increasingly complex web of business and financial 

                                                 4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

relationships” of public accounting firms.  Included in the revision was subsection 2-
01(c)(1)(iv)(A).  It provides: 
 
       (iv) Audit clients' financial relationships. An accountant is not independent when:  
        
       (A) Investments by the audit client in the accounting firm. An audit client has, or 
       has agreed to acquire, any direct investment in the accounting firm, such as 
       stocks, bonds, notes, options, or other securities, or the audit client's officers or 
       directors are record or beneficial owners of more than 5% of the equity securities 
       of the accounting firm. 
 
       9.      Rule 2-01(f)(2) of Regulation S-X defines “accounting firm” as “an organization . . 
. that is engaged in the practice of public accounting . . . and all of the organization’s . . . associated 
entities . . . .”  Rule 2-01 did not define the term “associated entities.” 
        
       10.    CBIZ is an associated entity of MHM by virtue of its APS relationship and ASA 
with MHM. 
 
       11.    Pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d) of the Exchange Act, Tradebot is required to file an 
annual report (“Annual Report”) which contains its audited financial statements.  Rules 17a-5(d), 
(e) and (f) specifically require that the Annual Report be audited by an “independent public 
accountant” and a “public accountant who shall be in fact independent” as defined by Rule 2-01(b) 
and (c).  From 2004 through 2012, Tradebot engaged MHM to audit its financial statements 
included in the Annual Report. 
        
       12.    Commencing in 2008, unbeknownst to MHM, Tradebot began to regularly trade in 
CBIZ stock and continued to trade in that stock through 2013.   
        
       13.    Prior to 2012, Tradebot was unaware of any prohibition against it acquiring any 
interest in the securities of CBIZ.  Prior to the 2012 audit period, MHM never inquired whether 
Tradebot traded in CBIZ stock. 
        
       14.    In about mid-2012, MHM’s engagement shareholder learned from Tradebot’s CFO 
that Tradebot had traded in CBIZ stock and discussed with Tradebot’s CFO the possibility that 
such trades may impact MHM’s independence. 
        
       15.    In response, MHM’s engagement shareholder contacted MHM’s Director of 
Quality Control and asked “whether or not that was something we need to be concerned about 
from an independence issue.”  MHM’s Director of Quality Control forwarded the question to 
MHM’s national director of professional standards, MHM’s president, and members of MHM’s 
executive committee. 
        
       16.    On September 4, 2012, Tradebot’s CFO emailed MHM’s engagement shareholder 
seeking further guidance on the impact of Tradebot’s trading in CBIZ, asking: “Can you send me 
the link pointing to the independence issue related to trading public stock.”  
        

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       17.    On September 6, 2012, MHM’s engagement shareholder responded to Tradebot’s 
CFO’s email, stating: “I do not have anything specific to this situation to send (as it does not exist).  
It is basically an interpretation of the SEC rules.  Our New York office had inquired of a similar 
situation in which the entity holds CBIZ stock and it was determined to be an issue….  
Unfortunately our chief independence officer is on a long vacation and I am trying to get a hold of 
him for thoughts.” 
 
       18.    On October 3, 2012, before resolving whether MHM was independent, Tradebot 
engaged MHM for the 2012 audit.  In connection with that engagement, MHM did not discuss with 
Tradebot the unresolved independence issue and proceeded to sign the engagement letter. 
        
       19.    MHM’s potential independence conflict should have been resolved prior to signing 
the engagement letter. 
        
       20.    On October 28, 2012, MHM’s director of quality control contacted MHM’s 
national director of professional standards and MHM’s president regarding the Tradebot 
independence issue.  On October 30, 2012, MHM’s national director of professional standards 
provided guidance to MHM’s director of quality control and MHM’s engagement shareholder, 
citing Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A) and instructing them that he thought MHM would have to resign if 
Tradebot would be able to acquire more than 5% of the equity securities of CBIZ. 
        
       21.    MHM’s national director of professional standards’ guidance to MHM’s director of 
quality control and MHM’s engagement shareholder did not comply with Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A). 
        
       22.    In October 2012, MHM requested a meeting with the Commission staff (“Staff”) to 
discuss matters relevant to the investigation, including a response to a request by the Staff to know 
whether MHM monitored the holdings of its broker-dealer clients for CBIZ stock, and whether 
there were instances of a broker-dealer client taking a position in CBIZ stock. 
        
       23.    The Staff met with MHM on December 4, 2012; MHM’s president attended the 
meeting with MHM’s counsel.  At that meeting the Staff conveyed to MHM that an audit client 
holding even one share of CBIZ would impair MHM’s independence. 
  
       24.    On December 5, 2012, MHM’s engagement shareholder emailed Tradebot 
concerning MHM’s conclusion regarding the independence question posed in September 2012, 
stating: 
 
       Following up on the independence issues we discussed earlier this year, below is 
       the SEC rule.  I am assuming Tradebot has not become the beneficial owner of 
       more than 5% of the CBIZ stock at one time, however, I would like to propose 
       perhaps you put a limit on the number of shares to be acquired at any one time. Is 
       that possible??  
        
       Reg. SX §210.2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A)- 
        
       An accountant is not independent when: 

                                               6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       (A)    Investments by the audit client in the accounting firm.  An audit client 
       has, or has agreed to acquire, any direct investment in the accounting firm, such 
       as stocks, bonds, notes, options, or other securities, or the audit client’s officers 
       or directors are record or beneficial owners of more than 5% of the equity 
       securities of the accounting firm. 
   
       25.    MHM’s engagement shareholder’s instruction to Tradebot was erroneous because 
the 5% threshold referenced in the rule does not apply to Tradebot; rather, it only applies to 
Tradebot’s officers and directors. 
        
       26.    Tradebot responded to MHM’s engagement shareholder’s email by indicating it 
would place a 10,000 share limit on trades in CBIZ, an amount that was below 5% of CBIZ’s 
outstanding shares.  
        
       27.    Tradebot continued to trade in CBIZ stock through 2013. 
  
       28.    Until 2013, MHM did not have any quality control or audit procedures to ensure 
clients did not trade in CBIZ stock or to otherwise comply with Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A).  Until 
2013, MHM provided no guidance to any audit client, including Tradebot, regarding trading 
prohibitions in CBIZ stock by the audit client.  Further, MHM did not implement any audit 
procedures during its audits of Tradebot, or any other broker-dealer clients, to review the securities 
they were trading to ensure compliance with Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A). 
        
       29.    MHM performed audits of Tradebot’s financial statements for the periods 2008 
through 2012 in connection with Tradebot’s Annual Reports filed with the Commission.  MHM 
provided audit opinions for those audits which indicated, among other things, that MHM was 
independent of Tradebot for those audits, when in fact, MHM was not independent. 
        
D.     VIOLATIONS 

       MHM’s IMPROPER PROFESSIONAL CONDUCT 
        
       30.    Section 4C(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice allow the Commission to censure, or deny temporarily or permanently, an 
accounting firm’s privilege of practicing before it if the firm is found to have “engaged . . . in 
improper professional conduct.” 
 
       31.    Pursuant to Section 4C(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii), improper professional conduct 
involves a violation of applicable professional standards through intentional, knowing or reckless 
conduct, and two types of negligent conduct: a single instance of highly unreasonable conduct for 
which heightened scrutiny is warranted; or repeated instances of unreasonable conduct that indicate 
a lack of competence to practice before the Commission. 
        
       32.    “Because of the importance of an accountant’s independence to the integrity of 
the financial reporting system, the Commission has concluded that circumstances that raise 
questions about an accountant’s independence always merit heightened scrutiny.” Amendment 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Release No. 33-7593 (Oct. 19, 1998), 63 
Fed. Reg. 57168. 
        
       1.      Relevant Audit Standards 
        
       33.    The term “applicable professional standards” primarily refers to generally accepted 
accounting principles (“GAAP”), generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”), the AICPA 
Code of Professional Conduct, and Commission regulations, but is broad enough to accommodate 
changes in the body of professional guidance routinely used by accountants. 
        
       34.    For auditors of registered broker-dealers, such as Tradebot, the applicable 
                                                                                       4
professional standards related to GAAS are those that have been issued by the AICPA.     
        
       35.    Both Rule 2-01 and GAAS require auditors to maintain strict independence from 
their audit clients.  AICPA Auditing Standards AU Section 150.02 requires that the auditor 
“maintain independence . . . in all matters relating to the audit.”  AICPA Auditing Standards AU 
Section 220.03 states “[i]t is of utmost importance to the profession that the general public 
maintain confidence in the independence of auditors.” 
        
       36.    GAAS requires that an auditor have policies and procedures designed to prevent 
independence impairment, and client acceptance and continuance procedures that ensure 
compliance with legal requirements, discussed below.   
        
       37.    MHM was negligent in its failure to comply with those professional standards. 
        
       2.      MHM’S Independence Was Impaired When It Audited Tradebot’s 2008 – 
               2012 Financial Statements  
        
               a.      Rule 17a-5  
        
       38.    Rule 17a-5 of the Exchange Act requires registered broker dealers to file periodic 
reports with the Commission including, pursuant to Rule 17a-5(d)(1)(i), an annual report “which 
shall be audited by an independent public accountant.”  Rule 17a-5(e)(1)(i) further states: “An 
audit shall be conducted by a public accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in 
paragraph (f)(3) of this section herein, and shall give an opinion covering the statements filed 
pursuant to paragraph (d)…”   
        
       39.    Rule 17a-5(f)(3) defines independence as “in accordance with the provisions of § 
210.2-01(b) and (c) of this chapter.” 
        
               b.     Rule 2-01(b) and (c) 
        
       40.    The general standard of auditor independence is described in Rule 2-01(b).    

                                                 
4
  The   AICPA auditing standards are applicable for the audits of broker- dealers,  Commission 
Guidance Regarding Auditing, Attestation, and Related Practice Standards Related to Brokers 
and Dealers, Release No. 34-62991, Sept. 24, 2010. 

                                                 8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

        
       41.    Additionally, Rule 2-01(c)’s subsections set forth “a non-exclusive specification of 
circumstances inconsistent with” Rule 2-01(b)’s general requirement.  The Commission stated: 
“As to circumstances specifically set forth in our rule, we have set forth a bright-line test: an 
auditor is not independent if he or she maintains the relationships, acquires the interests, or engages 
in the transactions specified in the rule.” Revision of the Commission’s Auditor Independence 
Requirements, Release No. 33-7919, 65 Fed. Reg. 76008 at 76030. 
        
       42.    When MHM audited Tradebot’s financial statements during the audit periods in 
which Tradebot had acquired direct investments in CBIZ stock, namely 2008 through 2012, 
MHM’s independence was impaired as to those audits. 
        
       3.      MHM Violated Other Applicable Professional Standards 
        
       43.    MHM violated professional standards that require an accounting firm to establish 
policies and procedures designed to assure independence, and client engagement procedures that 
ensure compliance with legal requirements and risks associated with the engagement. 
        
               a.     MHM Failed to Design Policies and Procedures That Assured 
                      Independence 

       44.    AICPA quality control standards are professional standards under GAAS.  Pursuant 
to AICPA QC Section 10 Paragraph 22, an auditor is required to have policies and procedures 
“designed to provide with reasonable assurance that the firm … maintain independence . . . .”  
        
       45.    In about 2012, MHM had well over a hundred broker dealer and investment fund 
clients, including Tradebot, which regularly trade in the securities of thousands of public 
companies.  Despite the risks of audit clients trading in CBIZ securities, until 2013 MHM did not 
have any written policies or procedures to address the independence issues established by Rule 2-
01(c)(1)(iv)(A) of audit clients trading in CBIZ securities.   
        
       46.    Further, until 2013 MHM did not have any written procedures to inform audit 
clients of the transactional proscriptions of trading in CBIZ securities or any written procedures to 
follow if audit clients traded in CBIZ securities in violation of Rule 2-01(c)(1)(iv)(A).   
        
       47.    Until 2013, MHM’s audit clients were unaware of restrictions on the trading of 
CBIZ securities.   
 
               b.     MHM Failed To Follow Proper Client Engagement Procedures 

       48.    Pursuant to AICPA QC Section 10 Paragraph 27, an auditor is required to have 
adequate policies and procedures for client continuance that are “designed to provide the firm with 
reasonable assurance that it will … continue … engagements only when the firm can comply with 
legal and relevant ethical requirements.”   
        
       49.    After learning in 2012 of Tradebot’s CBIZ transactions, MHM failed to perform 
adequate client acceptance procedures to ensure it was independent when being engaged and 

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

beginning substantive field work.  Shortly after internal consultation over the independence 
question was initiated but before MHM’s national director of professional standards had provided 
any guidance to the engagement shareholder, MHM proceeded with the engagement.  By doing so, 
MHM entered into an engagement without determining whether it could continue with the audit.  
        
       4.     MHM Violated AICPA Professional Standards  

       50.    Through the conduct described above, MHM violated GAAS provisions AU 
Sections 150.02 and 220.03, AICPA QC Section 10 Paragraphs 22 and 27 and thereby negligently 
engaged in improper professional conduct.   
        
       51.    Through its repeated instances of unreasonable conduct resulting in violations of 
applicable professional standards, MHM demonstrated a lack of competence to practice before the 
Commission.  
 
       5.     MHM CAUSED TRADEBOT’S VIOLATION OF SECTION 17(a) 
              AND RULE 17a-5 

       52.     Under Section  21C of the Exchange Act, a person is a “  cause”  of another's 
primary  violation  if the person knew or should have known that its act or omission would 
contribute  to the primary violation.  Negligence is sufficient to establish “causing” liability 
under Section  21C  when a person is alleged to have caused a primary violation that does not 
require scienter. 
        
       53.     MHM caused Tradebot’s violations of Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5 by 
certifying, as independent public accountants, Tradebot’s financial statements contained in its 
Annual Reports, when, in fact, MHM was not independent of Tradebot.   
        
       54.     Further, MHM lacked an adequate system of controls to maintain independence 
and failed to inform Tradebot of the proscription against trading in CBIZ stock.  Those failures 
impaired MHM’s independence and thereby caused Tradebot to file Annual Reports that did not 
contain audits by an independent accountant.  
        
       55.     MHM was negligent in certifying it was independent of Tradebot and having an 
inadequate system of controls and by failing to notify Tradebot of the proscription against 
trading in CBIZ stock. 
        
                                             IV. 
        
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
        
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
        
       A.      MHM shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
any future violations of Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 thereunder;  
        

                                              10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       B.       Pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, MHM is hereby censured; 
        
       C.       MHM shall, within 14 days of entry of the Order, pay disgorgement of $65,245, 
which represents profits gained as a result of the conduct described herein, prejudgment interest of 
$9,755, and civil penalties of $675,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  If timely 
payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
        
                (1)   Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
                (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
                (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and hand-
delivered or mailed to:  
        
       Enterprise Services Center 
       Accounts Receivable Branch 
       HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
       6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
       Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Mayer Hoffman McCann P.C. as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these 
proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to Karen Martinez, 
Regional Director, Salt Lake Regional Office, Securities and Exchange Commission, 351 South 
West Temple, Suite 6.100, Salt Lake City, Utah 84101.   
 
        
       By the Commission. 
        
                                            Brent J. Fields 
                                            Secretary 
 
 
 

                                               11 
 
