---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                               before the 
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70767 / October 29, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3511 / October 29, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15591
                                                 
                                                :        
                                                :        
                                                :         
        In the Matter of                        :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
                Ronald Baldwin, Jr. CPA,   :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                Respondent.                     :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
                                                :        
                                                :        
____________________________________ :                    
                                                         
 
                                                    I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Ronald 
Baldwin, Jr. (“Respondent” or “Baldwin”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
                  1
Rules of Practice.     
 
 
 
                                                     

                                                 
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
        The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . .     . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his 
or her misconduct in an action brought by the Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting 
the violation of any provision of t he Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder.  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
                
               1.      Baldwin, age 53, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of Florida since 1996.  He served as Chief Financial Officer of JBI, Inc. (“JBI”) 
from January 1, 2010 until his resignation effective March 28, 2011. 
        
               2.      JBI was, at all relevant times, a Nevada corporation with its principal place 
of business for a portion of the relevant period in Cambridge, Massachusetts and, later, in Thorhold, 
Ontario, Canada, with operations in New York, Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania.  JBI was a 
technology company focused on data restoration and recovery and environmentally engineered 
product development.  At all relevant times, JBI’s common stock was registered with the 
Commission pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), 
and was quoted on the OTC Bulletin Board. 
        
               3.      On January 4, 2012, the Commission filed a complaint against Baldwin in 
SEC v. JBI, Inc., et al. (Civil Action No. 1:12-cv-10012-MLW).  On October 16, 2013, the court 
entered an order permanently enjoining Baldwin, by consent, from future violations of Section 17(a) 
of the Securities Act of 1933, Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 
13b2-1 and Rule 13a-14 thereunder, and aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 
13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20 and 13a-1 thereunder.  Baldwin 
was also prohibited for five years from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class 
of securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act or that is required to file reports 
pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.  In addition, Baldwin was ordered to pay a $25,000 
civil money penalty. 
        
               4.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that Baldwin and 
others engaged in a scheme to commit securities fraud by stating materially false and inaccurate 
financial information on the financial statements of JBI for two reporting periods during 2009.  
Specifically, the complaint alleged that in an effort to boost JBI’s value as a company, Baldwin and 
others overstated by almost 1,000% the value of certain of JBI’s assets on the company’s financial 
statements for the third quarter of 2009 and the year end 2009.  JBI and others then used the 

                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

overvalued financial statements in two private capital raising efforts that raised more than $8.4 
million from unwitting investors. 
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Baldwin’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Baldwin is suspended from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an 
accountant. 
 
       B.      After five years from the date of this order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
      
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  Such 
an application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
Commission in this capacity; and/or 
      
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission that: 
      
                      (a)     Respondent, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be effective; 
 
                      (b)     Respondent, or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection did not identify any criticisms 
of or potential defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)     Respondent has resolved all disciplinary issues with the Board, and 
has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                      (d)     Respondent acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission as an independent accountant, to 
comply with all requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all 
requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
standards.   
      
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       C.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he/she has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating to Respondent’s character, integrity, professional conduct, 
or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                                4  
