---------------------Page 1---------------------

                            UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                        Before the 
                    SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 72199 / May 20, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3555 / May 20, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No.  3-15877 
                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
                                                 ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE- 
                                                 AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 
In the Matter of                                 TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 
                                                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
       BRYCE WALKER, CA and                      AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       SPENCE WALKER, CA, CPA                    COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                 MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondents.                                     REMEDIAL SANCTIONS AND A CEASE-
                                                  AND-DESIST ORDER 
 
 
 
        
 
                                             I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against 
Bryce Walker and Spence Walker , CPA (collectively “Respondents”) pursuant to Sections 4C1
                                                                                          
and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice.2
                                

                                                 
1
 Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
       The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the privilege 
of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the 
requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in 
unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
 Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offer s 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent s consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Public Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 
Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-      and-Desist Order (“Order”), as 
set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent  s’ Offer s, the Commission finds 3
                                                                                     that: 
 
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       1.      From 2007 until December 2010, DNTW Chartered Accountants         , LLP 
(“DNTW”), an accounting firm based in Canada, and Bryce Walker and Spence Walker, two of 
its partners, served as the independent auditors of  Subaye, Inc. (“Subaye”), a company whose 
stock is registered with the Commission and trades in the U.S.  These proceedings arise out 
of the Respondents ’ failure to comply  with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(“PCAOB”) Auditing Standards (“PCAOB Standards”) in their 2010 audit of Subaye .  Among 
other failures, Bryce Walker failed to : (a) properly supervise assistants; (b) obtain  sufficient 
competent evidence; (c) properly perform the confirmation process; and (  d) act with due 
professional care.  In his role as filing quality review partner, Spence Walker failed to act with due 
professional care because he should have been aware of audit deficiencies but did not address those 
deficiencies.  Had Respondents proper ly conducted the audit, they might have uncovered that 
Subaye was a fraudulent company that  lacked credible books and records.  
 
B.     RESPONDENTS 
 
       2.      Bryce Walker, age 36, is a Chartered Accountant (“CA”) licensed through the 
Institute of Chartered Accountants of Ontario  (“ICAO”) .  Bryce Walker served as the 
engagement partner on the 2010 audit of Subaye.  He was a partner of DNTW  Chartered 
Accountants operating out of the Markham office .  He is a resident of Markham, Ontario and a 
Canadian citizen.  
                                                                                                                                                             
       The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before 
it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct.  
 
3 
  The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent's Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

  
       3.      Spence Walker  , age 38, is a CA licensed through the ICAO and a   CPA  licensed to 
practice in Illinois.  Spence Walker served as the engagement partner on DNTW’s audits and 
reviews of Subaye from 2007 through the third quarter of   2010 and the file quality review 
partner for DNTW’s 2010 audit of Subaye.  He  was a partner  of DNTW  Chartered Accountants  
operating out of the Markham office.  He is a resident of Markham, Ontario and a Canadian 
citizen. 
  
C.     RELEVANT ENTITIES          4
                                   
 
       4.      Subaye, Inc., is a Delaware incorporated company that purported to have primary 
operations in the People’s Republic of China.  Subaye claimed to be a leading online services 
provider for small-to-medium sized businesses in China.  Its stock was registered with the 
Commission, and DNTW served as its independent auditor between 2007 and 2010.  Subaye’s 
fiscal year ends on September 30. 
        
       5.      DNTW Chartered Accountants, LLP (alternatively, “DNTW”) was a Canadian 
partnership of Chartered Accounting firm that was registered with the PCAOB and operated in 
seven major Canadian cities, including  Markham , Ontario.  From 2008 until February 28, 2013, 
the Markham office of DNTW performed public company audits  and was registered with the 
PCAOB.   5
           DNTW served as the independent auditor for Subaye  from 2007 through December 
31, 2010.  On February 28, 2013, the DNTW partnership was dissolved.      
                 
D.     FACTS 
 
       Background 
                
       6.      During at least 2010, Subaye  promoted itself as “a leading online business 
services provider in China.”  These online services were initially said to include video 
advertising and entertainment media services, and subsequently a cloud computing business.  
Customers purportedly paid m  onthly for the service.  Sales agents supposedly interacted with the 
customers and collected the monthly fees in cash. 
        
       7.      In its public filings for fiscal year 2010 ending September 30, 2010, Subaye 
claimed approximately $39 million in revenues   and  over 1,500 employees.  In addition, the 
company claimed that, as of the end of calendar year 2010, it had more than 14,600 customers.    
        

                                                 
4
 On May 8, 2013, the Commission filed a civil injunctive action against Subaye and its former Chief Financial 
Officer, James T. Crane (“Crane”) alleging that Subaye and Crane violated the antifraud, books and records, internal 
controls and reporting provisions of the Exchange Act, and that Crane violated Section 105(c)(7)(B) of the 
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (“SOX”). 
 
5
 A public company audit is defined as an engagem ent to audit the financial statements of an “issuer” as that term is 
defined in Section 3(a)(8) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
 
                                                3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       8.     On December 23, 2010, the same day Subaye filed its 2010 Form 10-K, Subaye 
dismissed DNTW  as its independent auditor  and hired  Pri cewaterhouseCoopers Hong Kong 
(“PwC HK”) as Subaye’s new independent auditor.  This set in motion a chain of events that, by 
mid-2011 had exposed Subaye to be a fraud, without the infrastructure to support its claimed 
cloud computing and other online business, few paying customers, few, if any, employees, no 
real revenues and no cash in bank accounts. 
 
       Accounting for Subaye’s Fraud 
 
       9.     In its Form 10-K and corresponding earnings press release for the period ended 
September 30, 2010, Subaye reported that $22.1 million of revenues collected by its sales agents 
had been reinvested into “growth orientated marketing expenses to help us penetrate attractive 
new markets.”  In reality, Subaye had almost no paying customers for its online membership 
business and claimed to have reinvested in marketing expenses so as to conceal the fact that the 
money did not exist.  During the fourth quarter of 2010, Subaye had recorded an $18.8 million 
asset called “Cash Held in Trust” on its balance sheet.  In discussions with Respondents, Subaye’s 
management claimed that the cash was being held by Subaye’s third-party sales agents to be used 
for marketing and promotional expenses, as directed by the company.  During the 2010 audit, 
Subaye provided DNTW with general ledger and journal entries showing funds recorded as 
“development” in various provinces, with an offset to accounts receivable from third party sales 
agents.  But when DNTW asked for documents to support the existence of this cash, said to be held 
by sales agents for development, Subaye’s management   could not produce any bank account 
statements, receipts, or other direct proof.  In reality, Subaye’s offset of the accounts receivable 
balances purportedly in exchange for marketing by its sales agents was a device used to hide the 
fact that those receivables would never be converted to cash, because the sales had never 
occurred. 
 
       10.    Similarly, Subaye’s financial statements reported “Deposits for Purchases of 
Inventoriable Assets” as an asset on its balance sheet beginning in 2009.  In its Form 10-K for 
the period ended September 30 , 2009, Subaye reported $8.1 million in Deposits for Purchases of 
Inventoriable Assets.  Subaye’s management   told the  Respondents that the deposits were related 
to Subaye’s future launch of its online 3D mall.  Like the reinvestment in “marketing 
promotions” scheme, the general ledger and journal entries provided to DNTW during the 2009 
audit showed amounts being recorded as “deposits” for various types of purchases with an offset 
to accounts receivable due from third-party sales agents. 
 
       11.    By the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010, the $8.1 million in deposits had been 
reduced to $2.8 million on Subaye’s books after a series of write-offs and a purported refund.  At 
the insistence of DNTW, Subaye expensed the remaining $2.8 million in the 2010 Form 10- K for 
the period ended September 30, 2010.  This write-off was another device used by Subaye to 
cover the fact that it had collected no cash for its outstanding receivables. 
 
       12.    In its 2010 financial statements, Subaye should not have recognized over $21 
million in revenues or the corresponding expenses related to the reinvestment of those revenues 
into “marketing” or “deposits” because the company never had cash or a claim to cash  for the 

                                               4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

purported revenues.  In fact, Subaye had almost no customers and its representations of earning 
more than $39 million in revenues for fiscal year 2010 were false and misleading. 
 
       13.     Subaye made numerous false and misleading statements in its Form 10 -K for 
fiscal year 2010.  Among other things, the Form 10-K overstated Subaye’s revenues, falsified 
marketing expenses, overstated the number of employees, and failed to disclose material related 
party transactions.  For fiscal year 2010, Subaye’s income statement was overstated by at least 
$21.6 million for the period ended September 30, 2010.  In addition, Subaye’s 2009 balance 
sheet, as reported in the Form 10-K for the period ended September 30, 2010, overstated the 
Deposits for Purchases of Inventoriable Assets by $8.1 million.  The effects of Subaye’s false and 
misleading statements were material to Subaye’s reported results. 
 
       Respondents Failed to Conduct the 2010 Audit in Accordance with PCAOB Standards 
 
       14.     Respondents performed the fiscal year 2010 audit of Subaye’s financial 
statements and issued an unqualified audit report.  The Respondents failed to ensure that the 
fiscal year 2010 Subaye audit was conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards.  As set forth 
below, Bryce Walker failed to: (a) properly supervise assistants; (b) obtain sufficient competent 
evidence; (c) properly perform the confirmation process; and (d) act with due professional care.  
Further, in his role as file quality review partner, Spence Walker failed to act with due professional 
care because he should have been  aware of audit deficiencies but did not address those 
deficiencies. 
 
               a.  Failure to properly supervise assistants 
 
       15.     Supervision involves directing the efforts of assistants who are involved in 
accomplishing the objectives of the audit and determining whether those objectives were 
accomplished. [AU§311, Planning and Supervision, at .   11]6
                                                              DNTW, under Bryce Walker’s 
direction, failed to appropriately supervise China-based assistants engaged to perform the audit 
fieldwork for the 2010 audit of Subaye. 
 
       16.     No employee of DNTW ever traveled to Subaye’s offices in China.  Instead, 
DNTW contracted with a China-based firm to employ assistan    ts to conduct the audit fieldwork.  
During the 2010 audit, Bryce Walker did not know the scope of the procedures being performed 
by the China-based assistants.  Furthermore, DNTW’s work papers  are unclear as to chain of 
custody of the accounts receivable confirmations or what, if any, role the China-based assistants 
had in the process.  By failing to understand what procedures the China-based assistants 
performed during the audit, and how they performed them, Bryce Walker     failed to properly 
supervise assistants as required under PCAOB Standards. 
        
               b.  Failure to obtain sufficient competent evidence 
        
       17.     Under PCAOB Standards, auditors are required to obtain sufficient competent    
evidential matter by performing audit procedures to afford a reasonable basis for an opinion 
                                                 
6
 References in this Order are to the PCAOB standards in effect at the time of the relevant conduct. 
                                                5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

regarding the financial statements under audit. [AU§326, Evidential Matter                                                        , at .01]  DNTW 
failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence regarding Subaye’s claims about cash, marketing 
expenses, and deposits for purchases of Inventoriable Assets. 
                          
                    i.   Cash 
                          
       18.    Despite the materiality of the cash balance, DNTW, under Bryce Walker’s 
direction, failed to gather sufficient competent evidence of its existence by relying solely on bank 
statements obtained from Subaye’s management.  As of September 30, 2010, Subaye’s financial 
statements showed a balance of $7.1 million.  Beginning with the 2009 audit, DNTW stopped 
testing cash through confirmations to banks because in prior year audits there had not been any 
exceptions with bank confirmations. 
 
       19.    Instead, DNTW relied solely on bank statements provided to DNTW’s     China -
based audit  assistants by Subaye’s management.  Under PCAOB Standards, audit evidence is 
more reliable when it is obtained from independent sources outside the entity than from solely 
within the entity.  [AU§326, Evidential Matter           , at .21]  During the 2010 audit, DNTW, under 
Bryce Walker’s direction, failed to obtain sufficient competent evidence in its testing of Subaye’s 
cash balances because it relied solely on information provided by Subaye’s management despite 
the materiality of the balance and the lack of evidence gathered from an independent source. 
 
                    ii.   Marketing expenses 
        
       20.    DNTW failed to obtain sufficie nt competent evidence regarding the purported 
marketing and promotional expenses Subaye reported in its 2010 financial statements.   
        
       21.    During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2010 Subaye had recorded an $18.8 
million asset called “Cash Held in Trust” on its balance sheet.  Subaye’s management informed 
both Bryce and Spence Walker that the cash was held by Subaye’s various third-party sales 
agents to be used at the company’s direction for development costs related to marketing and 
promotional expenses.  When DNTW requested documentation to support the existence of the 
cash and marketing expenses, Subaye’s management  was unable to produce any reliable 
evidence.  Instead, Subaye’s management  suggested the amount remain an asset but instead be 
labeled, “advances to third party agents for business development.”   
        
       22.    Bryce Walker and Spence Walker ultimately determined that there was not 
sufficient evidence to account for the $18.8 million as an asset and insisted that it instead be 
booked as a marketing expense.  However, DNTW did not obtain sufficient competent    evide nce 
to verify that the cash had ever existed or that the purported cash provided to sales agents for 
marketing was, or would be, used for marketing expenses. 
        
                   iii.   Deposits for purchase of Inventoriable Assets 
        
       23.    DNTW failed to obtain sufficient competent   evidenc e regarding the purported 
deposits for Inventoriable Assets. As stated in DNTW’s own work papers  , no “third party 

                                               6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

evidence of the existence of this cash, either by examining bank accounts or similar documents” 
was provided to the auditors.  DNTW failed to obtain sufficient competent  evidence that the cash 
purportedly provided to vendors for future inventory had ever existed.  In 2010, Subaye wrote 
off the remaining $2.8 million balance for Deposits for Purchase of Inventoriable Assets despite 
Subaye’s inabi lity to produce sufficient competent evidence to support the amounts recorded.    
 
       24.    In addition, DNTW failed to recognize that, if sufficient competent evidence was 
not available in 2010 to support the deposits, then sufficient competent evidence of the 2009 
balance of $8.1 million in deposits may not have been obtained in the prior year.  PCAOB 
Standards require an auditor who subsequently becomes aware of facts that may have existed as of 
the date of a previously issued audit report to, among other things, take action to determine the 
effect of the information on previously issued audit reports. [AU§561, Subsequent Discovery of 
Facts Existing at the Date of the Auditor’s Report]  After learning that there was not sufficient 
competent evidence to support the Deposits for Purchases of Inventoriable Assets, DNTW failed to 
take any action to determine the effect of that information on Subaye’s 2009 financial statements 
and DNTW’s corresponding audit report. 
 
              c.  Failure to properly perform the confirmation process 
 
       25.    During the performance of confirmation procedures for items like accounts 
receivable, the auditor should maintain control over the confirmation requests and responses.  
Maintaining control means that the auditor establishes direct communications be tween the 
intended recipient and the auditor so as to minimize the possibility that the results will be biased 
because of interception and alteration of the confirmation requests or responses. [AU§330, The 
Confirmation Process, at .28]  There is no evidence that DNTW established direct contact with 
the independent parties.  Therefore, DNTW failed to maintain control over the accounts 
receivable confirmation process. 
 
       26.    DNTW’s work papers contain copies of the returned accounts receivable 
confirmations.  However, there is insufficient documentation or evidence of how those 
confirmations were sent and received by the auditors.  Bryce Walker and his junior associate on 
the engagement testified that DNTW’s   China -based audit assistants had handled the sending and 
receipt of the confirmations.  However, an employee of the China -based audit assistants said that 
they had no role in the accounts receivable confirmation process.  In addition, one of the returned 
confirmations in DNTW’s work papers includes a handwritten note at the top that indicates four 
of the confirmations were faxed from Subaye’s bookkeeper to the DNTW offices.  By allowing 
Subaye to gain control over the confirmations, DNTW failed to maintain control of the process 
and increased the likelihood that the results were biased based on interception and alteration. 
                   
              d.  Failure to act with due professional care 
        
       27.    The auditor must exercise due professional care in the performance of the audit 
and the preparation of the audit report. [AU§230,                                Due Professional Care in the Performance of 
Work, at .01]  Due professional care requires the auditor to exercise professional skepticism. 
Professional skepticism is an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment 

                                               7  
---------------------Page 8---------------------

of audit evidence.  [AU§230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work                           , at .07]  It also 
requires that the auditor not be satisfied with less than persuasive evidence because of a belief 
that management is honest. [AU§230, Due Professional Care in the    Performance of Work , at 
.09] During the 2010 audit of Subaye , there were multiple instances where DNTW failed to 
exercise professional skepticism.   
        
       28.    Respondents did not probe  Subaye’s management  about the company’s inability 
to produce any evidence to support the over $18 million in purported cash that was later 
reclassified as a marketing expense.  Additionally, a Subaye officer emailed both Bryce and 
Spence Walker regarding the marketing expenses - “There is no control over the bank accounts.  
That was something I suggested they [Subaye] do but confirmed yesterday that it was not agreed 
to by the agents.”  Despite receiving an email from the Subaye officer stating that there were no 
controls over the cash, Respondents made no  further inquiries  and  conduc ted no additional 
procedures. 
        
       29.    In another example, Subaye’s initial position had been that the deposit contracts 
for “inventoriable assets” were fully refundable, and yet by the end of fiscal 2010, two of the 
contracts had been canceled and Subaye reported  that it had only been refunded for $1.9 million 
of the $5.9 million in outstanding deposits.  Despite being aware of this disparity, Respondents 
failed to probe the inconsistencies in a Subaye officer’s representations that the deposits were 
fully refundable.  Respondents should have been attentive to evidence about the Subaye officer’s 
credibility because he was their sole point of contact at Subaye.  As such, any questions about 
the Subaye officer’s credibility required Respondents to exercise professional skepticism and to 
seek additional evidence. 
        
       30.    Additionally, even though bank statements were the only evidence obtained to 
verify Subaye’s cash balances, Respondents  failed to question suspicious trans fers on those 
statements.  For example, $6.7 million of Subaye’s $7.1 million cash balance as of September 
30, 2010 resulted from deposits into Subaye’s accounts during the last seven days of September.  
Despite this suspicious timing, Respondents performe d no testing to ascertain the basis for the 
cash infusion during the final week of fiscal year 2010 
        
       31.    In addition to Respondents ’ failing to maintain control over the accounts 
receivable confirmation process, they also failed to address questions raised by the return of 
those confirmations to the audit team.  DNTW’s work papers indicate that 10 confirmations for 
accounts receivable were purportedly sent out to independent parties on November 19, 2010 and 
all were returned without exception by November 30, 2010.  Despite the fact that DNTW 
personnel, including Bryce Walker, recognized that it was very unusual for all audit 
confirmations to be returned so quickly, Respondents  never performed additional procedures to 
address the unusual timing, once again failing to exercise the adequate level of professional 
skepticism that was required based on the circumstances. 
        
       32.    Finally, in accordance with DNTW’s audit quality control process, Spence Walker 
was designated as the file quality review partner who had responsibility for reviewing the audit 
work of DNTW for the 2010 year-end audit of Subaye.  Spence Walker failed in this role because 

                                               8  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

he should have been aware of the shortcomings of the audit in obtaining sufficient competent 
evidence regarding cash, the marketing expenses, and deposits for Inventoriable Assets, yet did not 
assure that these deficiencies were appropriately addressed before completion of the audit.  He also 
failed to exercise due professional care in evaluating numerous significant risks during the 2010 
audit, including that Subaye was unable to produce sufficient competent evidence to support a 
purported $21 million asset during the 2010 audit. 
               
E.     VIOLATIONS 
 
       Improper Professional Conduct Under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) 
        
       33.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice provides that the 
Commission may deny to any person the privilege of practicing before it, if that person is found 
to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act 
provides for the same authority.  Improper professional conduct may be intentional or reckless; it 
can also be one of two types of negligent conduct:  a single instance of highly unreasonable 
conduct in circumstances for which heightened scrutiny is warranted; or repeated instances of 
unreasonable conduct that indicate a lack of competence. 
 
       34.    Bryce Walker, the engagement partner, was responsible for ensuring that 
DNTW’s audit of Subaye’s 2010 financial statements met applicable professional standards.  He 
failed in this regard, as DNTW’s audit of Subaye was not conducted in accordance with PCAOB 
Standards.  DNTW’s   audit failures demonstrate that Bryce Walker’s conduct was unreasonable 
and support an action against him under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii). 
               
       35.    Spence Walker, in his role as file quality review partner, took on certain 
responsibilities to ensure DNTW’s audits were conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  
As discussed herein, upon assuming this responsibility, Spence Walker should have become aware 
of audit deficiencies in multiple areas but did not address those deficiencies.  These failures 
demonstrate that Spence Walker’s conduct was unreasonable and support an action against him 
under Rule 102(e)(1)(ii). 
               
       Respondents Caused Subaye’s Violation of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 
       Thereunder 
 
       36.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder, require that every 
issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act file with the 
Commission annual reports as the Commission may require, and mandate that periodic reports 
contain such further material information as may be necessary to make the required statements 
not misleading. The obligation to file such reports embodies the requirement that they be true 
and correct. 
 
       37.    Included in Subaye’s annual report for the fiscal year ended 2010 was an audit 
report from DNTW that stated DNTW’s audit was conducted “in accordance with the standards 
of the Public Company Accounting   Oversight Board (United States).”  The statement in 

                                               9  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

DNTW’s audit report was false, because Respondents failed to conduct their audit of Subaye in 
accordance with PCAOB Standards.  Accordingly, Respondents were a cause of Subaye’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder. 
        
       Spence Walker and Bryce Walker caused DNTW’s direct violation of Rule 2-02 of 
       Regulation S-X 
        
       38.    Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X requires an accountant’s report to state 
“whether the audit was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.” 
“[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS 
(“Generally Accepted Auditing Standards”) or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate 
to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules 
of the Commission.” (See SEC Release No. 34-49708 (May 14, 2004)).  Thus, an auditor 
violates Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) if it issues a report stating that it had conducted its audit 
in accordance with PCAOB Standards when it had not.  See  In re Andrew Sims, CPA, Rel. 
No.34-59584, AAER No. 2950 (Mar. 17, 2009). 
        
       39.    DNTW issued an audit report on Subaye ’s 2010 financial statements stating that it 
had conducted its audit in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  DNTW’s audit, however, was not 
conducted in accordance with PCAOB Standards.  As such, DNTW directly violated Rule 2-
02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X.  Bryce Walker, as engagement partner, and Spence Walker, as file 
quality review partner, should have known that DNTW had not conducted its audit in accordance 
with PCAOB Standards.  Accordingly, Bryce Walker and Spence Walker    caused DNTW  ’s 
violation of Rule 2-02(b)(1). 
               
F.     FINDINGS 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that the Respondents engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Respondents caused Subaye’s 
violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  Additionally, the 
Commission finds that DNTW directly violated Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1) and that Spence 
Walker and Bryce Walker caused DNTW’s violation of Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1). 
        
G.     UNDERTAKINGS        
                                               
       Respondents Bryce Walker and Spence Walker undertake   the following: 
 
       Cooperation  
        
       A.     Respondents Bryce Walker and Spence Walker agree that each   shall cooperate 
fully with the Commission with respect to any matter relating to the Commission's investigation 
of Subaye or its current or former officers, directors or employees, including but not limited to 

                                             10   
---------------------Page 11---------------------

any litigation or other proceeding related to or resulting from that investigation, including 
litigation in SEC v. Subaye, Inc. and James T. Crane            , Civil Action No. 13 CIV 3114 (S.D.N.Y.).   
        
              a.      Producing any document, record, or other tangible evidence reasonably 
              requested by Commission staff in connection with the Commission's 
              investigation, litigation or other proceedings; 
               
              b.      Providing all information reasonably requested by Commission staff in 
              connection with the Commission's investigation; and  
        
              c.      Attending and providing truthful statements or testimony at any meeting, 
              interview, testimony, deposition, trial, or other legal proceeding reasonably 
              requested by the Commission staff. 
        
In determining whether to accept the Offer, the Commission has considered these undertakings. 
 
                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.     Respondents Bryce Walker and Spence Walker shall cease and desist from 
committing or causing any violations and any  future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange 
Act and Rule 13a-1 promulgated thereunder and Regulation S-X Rule 2-02(b)(1). 
 
       B.     Respondent Bryce Walker     is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an accountant.  
        
       C.     After three (3) years from the date of this order, Respondent Bryce Walker  may 
request that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as:  
        
              1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or  
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with  
                      the Commission. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that  
                      Respondent Bryce Walker’s work in his practice before the Commission     
                      will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public  
                      company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long  
                      as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                         
              2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the    
                      Commission that: 
        

                                               11   
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                    (a)      Respondent Bryce Walker, or the public accounting firm with     
                              which he is associated, is registered with the Public Company  
                              Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the  
                              Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be  
                              effective; 
        
                    (b)      Respondent Bryce Walker, or the registered public accounting firm 
                              with which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and   
                              that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential  
                              defects in Respondent Bryce Walker’s or the firm’s quality control  
                              system that would indicate that Respondent Bryce Walker will not  
                              receive appropriate supervision; 
        
                    (c)      Respondent Bryce Walker has resolved all disciplinary issues with  
                              the Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any  
                              sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the  
                              Commission); and  
        
                    (d)      Respondent Bryce Walker acknowledges his responsibility, as long 
                              as Bryce Walker appears or practices before the Commission as an  
                              independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of the  
                              Commission and the Board, including, but not limited to, all  
                              requirements relating to registration, inspections, concurring  
                              partner reviews and quality control standards. 
        
       D.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Bryce Walker       to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if  state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Respondent Bryce Walker   ’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to 
appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       E.     Respondent Spence Walker is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing 
before the Commission as an accountant. 
        
       F.     After one (1) year from the date of this order, Respondent Spence Walker may 
request that the Comm ission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or  
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with  
                      the Commission. Such an application must satisfy the Commission that  
                      Respondent Spence Walker’s work in his practice before the Commission   

                                               12   
---------------------Page 13---------------------

                      will be reviewed either by the independent audit committee of the public  
                      company for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long  
                      as he practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                          
               2.     an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the     
                      Commission that: 
        
                    (a)      Respondent Spence Walker, or the public accounting firm with   
                              which he is associated, is registered with the Public Company  
                              Accounting Oversight Board (“Board”) in accordance with the  
                              Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be  
                              effective; 
        
                    (b)      Respondent Spence Walker, or the registered public accounting   
                              firm with which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board  
                              and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential  
                              defects in Spence Walker’s or the firm’s quality control system   
                              that would indicate that Spence Walker will not receive      
                              appropriate supervision; 
        
                    (c)      Respondent Spence Walker has resolved all disciplinary issues  
                              with the Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of  
                              any sanctions imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by  
                              the Commission); and  
                     
                    (d)      Respondent Spence Walker acknowledges his responsibility, as   
                              long as Respondent Spence   Walker appears or practices before the  
                              Commission as an independent accountant, to comply with all  
                              requirements of the Commission and the Board, including, but not  
                              limited to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections,  
                              concurring partner reviews and quality control standards. 
 
       G.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent Spence Walker to 
resume appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the 
Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may 
include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating 
to Respondent Spence Walker’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to 
appear or practice before the Commission. 
        
       H.     Respondents Bryce Walker and Spence Walker, jointly and severally, shall, 
within ten (10) days of the entry of this Order, pay disgorgement of $128,000 and prejudgment 
interest of $10,954 to the Securities and Exchange Commission  .  Payment shall be made in the 
following installments: $38,954 to be paid with the entry of this Order and $100,000 to be paid 

                                               13   
---------------------Page 14---------------------

within one-year from the date of the Order.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest 
shall accrue pursuant to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Payment must be made in one of the 
following ways: 
        
              (1)    Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                     will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
              (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                     through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or 
        
              (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                     States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                     Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying 
Spence Walker or Bryce Walker as a Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of 
these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or money order must be sent to John T. 
Dugan, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 33 Arch Street, 23  rd
                                                                                          
Floor, Boston, MA 02110. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                  Jill M. Peterson 
                                                  Assistant Secretary 

                                             14   
