---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                          before the 
                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 70658 / October 10, 2013 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3506 / October 10, 2013 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-15563
                                            
                                           :        
                                           :        
                                           :         
       In the Matter of                    :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                           :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
              JOHN LAZORCHAK               :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                     (CPA),                :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                           :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
              Respondent.                  :        
                                           :        
                                           :        
____________________________________ :               
                                                    
                                              I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against John 
Lazorchak (“Respondent” or “Lazorchak”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice.1
                    
                                                
                                              II. 
 
       In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
                                                 
1
       Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission, with due regard to the public interest and without preliminary hearing, may, by order, . . . 
suspend from appearing or practicing before it any . . . accountant . . . who has been by name . . . permanently 
enjoined by any court of competent jurisdiction, by reason of his or her misconduct in an action brought by the 
Commission, from violating or aiding and abetting the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or of 
the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and admitting the Commission’s jurisdiction 
over him, the subject matter of these proceedings and the findings contained in Section III., 
paragraph 2 below, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Administrative 
Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and 
Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                              III. 
 
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
              1.      Lazorchak, age 42, is and has been a certified public accountant licensed to 
practice in the State of New Jersey.  From 2007 until his termination in November 2012, Lazorchak 
served as Director of Financial Reporting at Celgene Corp., a biopharmaceutical company 
incorporated in Delaware with its principal place of business in Summit, New Jersey.  At all 
relevant times, Celgene’s common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 
12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), and traded on the NASDAQ 
National Market. 
 
              2.      On November 19, 2012, the Commission filed a complaint against 
Lazorchak in SEC v. Lazorchak , et al., Civ. Act. No. 12-7164 (KSH) (D. N.J.).  On October 7, 
2013, the Court entered a Judgment permanently enjoining Lazorchak, by consent, from future 
violations of Sections 10(b) and 14(e) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b-5 and 14e-3 thereunder 
and imposing an officer and director bar on him pursuant to Section 21(d)(2) of the Exchange Act.  
Lazorchak also was ordered to pay disgorgement of $63,800 and prejudgment interest of 
$7,246.83, for a total payment of $71,046.83.   
 
              3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, th at, as part of 
 an insider trading scheme, Lazorchak used his position at Celgene, and his access to the 
 company’s confidential information, to tip material, nonpublic information to downstream 
 tippees, both directly and through an intermediary participant in the scheme.  These tips included 
 material, nonpublic information regarding Celgene’s acquisitions of Pharmion Corp. and 
 Abraxis Bioscience, Inc., Celgene’s corporate earnings, and Celgene’s withdrawal of a request to 
 expand the use of the drug Revlemid.  In addition, the complaint alleged that an insider at 
 Stryker Corp., who was a friend of Lazorchak, tipped material, nonpublic information regarding 
 Orthovita Inc.’s impending acquisition of Stryker Corp. to Lazorchak, and that Lazorchak again 
 tipped that information both directly and through an intermediary to downstream tippees.  The 
 complaint further alleged that, as part of this scheme, Lazorchak received kickbacks in the form 
 of cash payments in exchange for the information he tipped.  Finally, the complaint alleged that 
 in the spring of 2008, Lazorchak misled regulators during an inquiry into trading preceding the 
 Celgene/ Pharmion transaction.    
        
 
 

                                               2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                              IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Lazorchak’s Offer. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that Lazorchak    is suspended 
from appearing or practicing before the Commission as an accountant.   
 
        
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Elizabeth M. Murphy 
                                                    Secretary 
 

                                               3  
