---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 73769 / December 8, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3604 / December 8, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16300 
 
                                                  ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                  ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE - 
                                                  AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
In the Matter of                                  PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C 
                                                  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
       Robert Cooper and                          OF 1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       Company, CPA PC ,                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                  
                                                                
Respondent.                                                                      
 
 
 
                                             
                                                 
                                               I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against Robert 
                                                                                   1
Cooper and Company, CPA PC (“Respondent” or “Cooper”) pursuant to Sections 4C       and 21C of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s 
                 2
Rules of Practice. 

                                                           
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
              The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
              privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . . 
              (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character 
              or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have 
              willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the securities 
              laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 

 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                                      II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over it and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making 
Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth 
below.  
                                                         
                                                      III. 
 
                                                                                           3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds  that:  
 
A.      SUMMARY 

        This matter concerns violations of the Commission’s auditor independence rules by Cooper.  
Cooper audited the annual financial statements that were filed with the Commission for twelve 
broker-dealer audit clients for the fiscal years 2010, 2011, and/or 2012.  For the 2011 audit of one of 
these broker-dealer audit clients, Cooper was not independent under auditor independence criteria 
established by the Commission and made applicable by Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) to audits 
                          4
of brokers and dealers.       As a result of this conduct,  Cooper engaged in improper professional 
conduct, violated the auditor independen     ce rules, and caused the broker   -dealer’s failure to file an 
annual report audited by an independent accountant. 

                                   

                                                                                                                                                                                           
                 The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                 appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have engaged in unethical 
                 or improper professional conduct. 
                  
3
        The findings are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any other 
person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 
4
        The provisions of Exchange Act Rule 17a -5 referred to herein are those in effect during, and applicable to, 
the relevant conduct.  On July 30, 2013, the Commission adopted certain amendments to Rule 17a-5. See Broker-
Dealer Reports, SEC Exchange Act Release No. 34-70073 (July 30, 2013), 78 Fed. Reg. 51910 (Aug. 21, 2013).  
Among other things, the amendments to Rule 17a-5 require that audits of brokers and dealers be performed in 
accordance with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board standards, effective for audits of fiscal years ending 
on or after June 1, 2014.  The auditor independence requirement of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X applied to broker-
dealer audits both before and after the July 30, 2013 amendments.    At the time of the relevant conduct, prior to the 
amendments, that requirement was set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(3).  It is now set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(1). 

                                                       2 
                                                         
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

B.     RESPONDENT 

       Respondent Cooper, a professional corporation, is an accounting and auditing firm 
registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”).  Cooper has one 
partner, Robert Cooper, who is located in an office in Chicago, Illinois. 

C.     FACTS 

       1.      Lack of Independence 
 
       a.      During fiscal years 2010 through 2012 (the “Relevant Period”), Cooper served as 
the independent public accountant for twelve broker-dealer audit clients.  In connection with the 
2011 audit performed for one of its broker-dealer audit clients (“Broker-Dealer A”) during the 
Relevant Period, Cooper prepared the financial statements and/or notes to the financial 
statements that were filed with the Commission on Form X-17A-5.  
 
       b.      During the audit for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, Cooper provided 
Broker-Dealer A with financial statement footnotes from the prior year’s audit that Broker-
Dealer A updated and Cooper then reviewed.  Cooper also made some suggestions for the 
grouping of accounts to be incorporated into the financial statements. 
 
       c.      In February 2012, Broker-Dealer A filed with the Commission a Form X-17A-5 
Part III for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.  Included in that filing is an audit report 
signed by Cooper and stating, among other things, that Cooper’s audit of Broker-Dealer A was 
conducted “in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States.” 
 
       2.      Violations  
 
       a.      Section 17(e)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that every registered broker or 
dealer “annually file with the Commission a balance sheet and income statement certified by an 
independent public accounting firm, or by a registered public accounting firm if the firm is 
required to be registered under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, prepared on a calendar or fiscal 
year basis, and such other financial statements (which shall, as the Commission specifies, be 
certified) and information concerning its financial condition as the Commission, by rule may 
prescribe as necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.” 
        
       b.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(e)(1)(i) states: “An audit shall be conducted by a public 
accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in paragraph (f)(3) of this section herein, 
and he shall give an opinion covering the statements filed pursuant to paragraph (d) . . . .” 
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) further states that, for such audits, “[a]n accountant shall be 
independent in accordance with the provisions of Rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X.”   
 
       c.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(g) requires that “[t]he audit shall be made in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards” and Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) requires 
that “[t]he accountant’s report shall . . . [s]tate whether the audit was made in accordance with 
generally accepted auditing standards.”  Generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”) 
require auditors to maintain strict independence from their audit clients; an auditor “must be free 

                                                3 
                                                 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

from any obligation to or interest in the client, its management or its owners.”  See Statement on 
Auditing Standard No. 1, Section 220.03.  Accordingly, if an auditor’s report states that its audit 
was performed in accordance with GAAS when the auditor was not independent, then it has 
violated Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i).  See In the Matter of Rosenberg Rich Baker Berman & 
Company and Brian Zucker, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 69765 at p. 5 (June 14, 2013).   
        
       d.      Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X provides that accountants are not independent 
if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the accountant provides 
prohibited non-audit services to an audit client.  Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X provides 
that prohibited non-audit services include bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting 
records or financial statements of the audit client, and defines such services as:   
        
       Any service, unless it is reasonable to conclude that the results of these services 
       will not be subject to audit procedures during an audit of the audit client's 
       financial statements, including: 
        
           (A) Maintaining or preparing the audit client's accounting records; 
                
           (B) Preparing the audit client's financial statements that are filed 
               with the Commission or that form the basis of financial 
               statements filed with the Commission; or 
            
           (C) Preparing or originating source data underlying the audit 
               client's financial statements. 
 
       e.      Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X specifically prohibits an audit firm from 
preparing an audit client’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  In this 
context, preparing financial statements includes but is not limited to:  aggregating line items 
from internal books and records to the financial statements; changing line item descriptions; 
drafting or editing notes to the financial statements; and converting FOCUS reports or 
bookkeeping software program reports into financial statements.  With respect to the audit of 
Broker-Dealer A, Cooper engaged in one or more of the above prohibited actions, by drafting or 
editing the notes.  
        
       f.      As a result of Cooper’s conduct described above, Cooper was not independent of 
Broker-Dealer A under the independence criteria established by Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-
X, which Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 made applicable to the audits of broker-dealer financial 
statements.  As the Commission explained in adopting Rule 2-01(c)(4), providing such services 
for an audit client “impairs the auditor’s independence because the auditor will be placed in the 
position of auditing the firm’s work when auditing the client’s financial statements. . . .  In 
addition, keeping the books is a management function, the performance of which leads to an 
inappropriate mutuality of interests between the auditor and the audit client.”  Revision of the 
Commission’s Auditor Independence Requirements, Exchange Act Release No. 43602, at 
IV.D.4.b(i) (November 21, 2000).  See also Strengthening the Commission’s Requirements 
Regarding Auditor Independence, Exchange Act Release No. 47265 (“keeping the books is a 
management function, which also is prohibited”)(January 28, 2003). 

                                                4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

 
       g.     Cooper violated Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) by representing in its audit report 
that it had performed the audit of Broker-Dealer A’s financial statements in accordance with 
GAAS when in fact, because of the independence impairment described above, the audit had not 
been performed in accordance with GAAS. 
 
       h.     Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5 require broker-dealers to file annual 
reports containing financial statements audited by independent public accountants.  No showing 
of scienter is necessary to establish a violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a)(1).  See In the 
Matter of Orlando Joseph Jett, Exchange Act Release No. 49366 at n.45 (March 5, 2004) (citing 
SEC v Drexel Burham Lambert Inc., 837 F. Supp. 587, 610 (S.D.N.Y. 1993); Stead v. SEC, 444 
                    th
F.2d 713, 716-17 (10  Cir. 1971), cert denied, 404 U.S. 1059 (1972)).   
        
       i.      Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, a person is a “cause” of another’s 
primary violation if the person knew or should have known that his act or omission would 
contribute to the primary violation.  Negligence is sufficient to establish “causing” liability under 
Section 21C when a person is alleged to have caused a primary violation that does not require 
scienter.  In re KPMG Peat Marwick, Exch. Act. Rel. No. 43862 (Jan. 19, 2001), aff’d, KPMG v. 
SEC, 289 F.3d 109 (D.C. Cir. 2002).  
        
       j.     Cooper caused Broker-Dealer A to violate Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 
17a-5.  Cooper, an audit firm registered with the PCAOB and operated by a Certified Public 
Accountant, knew or should have known that its conduct, including incorrectly stating in an audit 
report that the audit was conducted in accordance with GAAS, contributed to Broker-Dealer A’s 
violations of Exchange Act Section 17(a) and Rule 17a-5.           
        
       k.     Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice allows the Commission to 
censure a person if it finds that such person has engaged in “improper professional conduct.”  
Exchange Act § 4C(a)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(ii).  Rule 102(e) defines improper professional 
conduct, in part, as:  “[a] single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which the registered public 
accounting firm or associated person knows, or should know, that heightened scrutiny is 
warranted.”  Exchange Act § 4C(b)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B). 
        
       l.     Questions regarding an auditor’s independence always warrant heightened 
scrutiny.  See Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. Reg. 
57,164, 57,168 (Oct. 26, 1998) (codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201).  The Commission has defined 
the “highly unreasonable” standard as: 
        
       an intermediate standard, higher than ordinary negligence but lower than the 
       traditional definition of recklessness used in cases brought under Section 10(b) of 
       the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.  The highly unreasonable 
       standard is an objective standard. The conduct at issue is measured by the degree 
       of the departure from professional standards and not the intent of the accountant.   
 

                                               5 
                                                 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

Id. at 57,167; see also In the Matter of Ernst & Young LLP, Admin. Proc. File No. 3-10933, SEC 
Initial Decision Release No. 249, at 60 (Apr. 16, 2004). 
 
       m.     Based on the conduct set forth above, Cooper engaged in highly unreasonable 
conduct that resulted in a violation of applicable professional standards when it knew or should 
have known that heightened scrutiny was required. 
        
       3.     Findings 
 
       a.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Cooper engaged in improper 
professional conduct pursuant to Exchange Act Section 4C(a)(2) and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       b.     Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that Cooper committed a violation of 
Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) and caused one broker-dealer’s violations of Section 17(a) and Rule 
17a-5 promulgated thereunder.  
        
       4.     Respondent’s Remedial Efforts and Cooperation 
 
       In determining to accept the Offer, the Commission considered the remedial acts 
undertaken by Respondent and the cooperation afforded the Commission staff.  As part of its 
remediation, Cooper has already implemented or begun to implement some of the Undertakings 
listed below. 
 
       5.     Undertakings 
                                                
       Cooper undertakes: 
 
       a.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish written policies 
and procedures, or to revise and/or supplement existing written policies and procedures, for the 
purpose of providing Cooper with reasonable assurance of compliance with applicable 
independence requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X 
applicable to an SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (defined to mean an engagement to 
provide a report – whether an audit report, an examination report, or a review report – required 
under Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(d)(1)(i)(C), as amended); 
        
       b.     within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order, to establish a policy of 
ensuring training, whether internal or external, on an annual or more frequent regular basis, 
concerning applicable independence requirements, including those requirements of Rule 2-01 of 
Regulation S-X applicable to an SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement, of any Firm audit 
personnel who participate in any way in the planning or performing of any SEC Registered 
Broker-Dealer Engagement; 
        
       c.      within ninety (90) days from the date of the Order and before Cooper’s 
commencement of any SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement (or, where Cooper by the 
date of this Order has already commenced but not completed such an engagement, before 

                                               6 
                                                
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

Cooper’s release of its report), to ensure training pursuant to the policy described in paragraph 
(5)(b) above has been provided on at least one occasion; 
        
       d.      to provide a copy of the Order –  
        
               (i)    within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to all audit personnel 
employed by, or associated with (as defined in PCAOB Rule 1001(p)(i)), Cooper as of the date 
of the Order; and 
        
               (ii)   within thirty (30) days from the date of the Order, to any client of Cooper 
as of the date of the Order for which Cooper has performed or has been engaged to perform an 
SEC Registered Broker-Dealer Engagement; and 
        
        e.     to certify in writing to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, Division of 
Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549-
5553, Cooper’s compliance with paragraphs 5(a) through 5(d)(ii) above.  The certification shall 
identify the undertakings, provide written evidence of compliance in the form of a narrative, and 
be supported by exhibits sufficient to demonstrate compliance.  Cooper shall submit such 
certification within one hundred twenty (120) days from the date of the Order.  Cooper shall also 
submit such additional evidence of and information concerning compliance as the staff of the 
Division of Enforcement may reasonably request. 
        
                                               IV. 
 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent Cooper’s Offer. 

       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 

       A.      Cooper is hereby censured. 
        
       B.      Cooper shall cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and any 
future violations of Section 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 17a-5 promulgated thereunder. 
 
       C.      Cooper shall comply with the undertakings enumerated in Section (III)(C)(5) 
above. 
 
       By the Commission. 

 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 

                                                7 
                                                 
