---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                            Before the 
                         SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 

      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
      Release No. 79820 / January 18, 2017  

      ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
      Release No. 3848 / January 18, 2017  

      ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
      File No. 3-17794 

                                                ORDER INSTITUTING CEASE-AND-
                                               DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO 
      In the Matter of 
                                               SECTION 21C OF THE SECURITIES 
                                               EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, MAKING 
      KENNETH MACK and BRYAN 
      McMILLAN                                 FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING CEASE-AND-
                                               DESIST ORDERS AND PENALTIES 
      Respondents. 

       

                                                I. 

             The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that 
      cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the 
      Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), against Kenneth Mack (“Mack”) and Bryan 
      McMillan (“McMillan”) (collectively “Respondents”).  

                                                II. 

             In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
      of Settlement (“Offers”), which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
      purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
      Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
      findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
      these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided in Section IV.E herein, 
      Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-and-Desist Proceedings 
      Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making Findings, and Imposing 
      Cease-and-Desist Orders and Penalties (“Order”), as set forth below. 

       

       

 

 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

        

                                                      III. 

                                                                                         1
                                                                                          
              On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds that: 

                                                 SUMMARY 

              This matter concerns the conduct of Kenneth Mack (“Mack”) and Bryan McMillan 
       (“McMillan”) in connection with a financial restatement that occurred at Orthofix International, 
       N.V. (“Orthofix”).  During the relevant period, McMillan served as the President of Orthofix’s 
       largest segment – its Spine Segment – and Mack reported to him as a Vice President of Global 
       Sales and Development responsible for the international portion of Orthofix’s Spine Segment.  
       During the relevant period, Orthofix had an unwritten policy requiring that any modifications 
       made to contractual, payment, or other related terms with international distributors be approved 
       by the Chief Financial Officer of Orthofix’s Spine Segment (“Spine CFO”) before any final 
       agreement occurred.  During the relevant period, however, Respondents agreed to terms on two 
       transactions with one of Orthofix’s largest distributors without the Spine CFO’s approval.  Mack 
       additionally negotiated transactions with two other international distributors containing various 
       concessions without the Spine CFO’s knowledge or approval.  Moreover, in connection with a 
       fiscal year 2012 audit conducted by Orthofix’s independent auditors, Mack provided an 
       inaccurate representation.   

              As a result of the foregoing conduct, Mack and McMillan violated Exchange Act Section 
       13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1 and were a cause of Orthofix’s violations of the reporting and books 
       and records provisions of the federal securities laws.  Mack additionally violated Exchange Act 
       Rule 13b2-2(b) through his inaccurate representation to Orthofix’s independent auditors. 

                                              RESPONDENTS 

              Kenneth Mack, age 45, served as the Vice President of Global Sales and Development 
       for the international portion of Orthofix’s Spine Segment from March 2011 until May 2013 and 
       is no longer employed at Orthofix. 

              Bryan McMillan, age 46, served as Orthofix’s Spine Segment President from November 
       2011 through November 2012 and is no longer employed at Orthofix. 

               

               

                                                        

       1
         
              The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer and are not binding on any other person or 
                                       
       entity in this or any other proceeding.

                                                       2 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        

                                                   FACTS 

           A.  Orthofix’s Business and Structure 
               
           1.  Orthofix’s business was primarily divided into two Global Business Segments during the 
              relevant period – Spine and Orthopedics.  During the relevant period, Spine was 
              Orthofix’s largest segment and contributed two-thirds of the company’s overall revenues. 

           2.  Spine had several operating divisions during the relevant period including Orthofix 
              Spinal Implants (“OSI”), which was responsible for international sales of spinal implants 
              and related instruments. 

           3.  Spine sold products through various methods, including selling its products to 
              international distributors who then sold the products to hospitals and physicians. 

           4.  As Spine Segment President, McMillan was in charge of Spine’s sales and overall 
              management.  McMillan had several sales persons who worked under him, including 
              Mack.   

           5.  As Spine’s Vice President of Global Sales and Development, Mack was in essence the 
              relationship manager for a number of relationships that OSI had with certain international 
              distributors.  Mack had a sales team of approximately four employees who reported to 
              him and had day-to-day responsibility for certain distributor relationships. 

           B.  Distributor Business and Revenue Recognition Practices 

           6.  Orthofix entered into written agreements with distributors of its product.  These 
              distributor agreements provided, among other things, standard payment terms for 
              purchase of products.  These standard payment terms ranged typically from 90 to 180 
              days.   

           7.  During the relevant period, Spine had an unwritten policy requiring that modifications to 
              the terms in existing distributor agreements be approved by the Chief Financial Officer of 
              the Spine Segment (“Spine CFO”).  The Spine CFO reported directly to McMillan and 
              indirectly to the Orthofix CFO who was a principal executive officer of the company.   

           8.  The Spine CFO’s approval authority in this regard extended to all aspects of distributor 
              agreement terms, including pricing, commissions, discounts, extensions of payment 
              terms, payment plans, returns, and exchanges. 

           9.  With limited exceptions, Orthofix recognized revenue during the relevant period based on 
              the “sell-in” method, which provides for revenue recognition upon shipment of products 
              to the distributor. 

                                                       3 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        

           10. ASC 605-10-25-1 provides that revenue may be recognized only when it is both realized 
               or realizable and earned.  Consistent with the authoritative literature, Orthofix’s financial 
               statements disclosed four criteria as its revenue recognition policy. 

           11. The four criteria are: (i) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists; (ii) delivery has 
               occurred or services have been rendered; (iii) the seller’s price to the buyer is fixed and 
               determinable; and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. 

           C.  McMillan and Mack Imposed Pressure to Meet Internal Sales Targets 
                
           12. During the relevant period, Orthofix had a culture of aggressively setting internal sales 
               targets and imposing pressure upon its sales personnel to meet those targets.  For 
               example, on October 22, 2011, McMillan emailed Mack and others concerning the need 
               for OSI to meet its fourth quarter forecast of $6 million in revenue.  McMillan wrote “if 
               we fail at this endeavor then the company will be at risk and next year will be Hell on 
               Earth for all of us.” 

           13. Less than one year later –  and again reflecting the pressure imposed to meet revenue 
               targets – Mack sent the following email on August 28, 2012 to his sales team with the 
               subject line “September Gut:” 

                  I need your gut feeling on the revenue we can generate in September.  We need $2 
                  million in addition to what is on the portal . . .based on the feedback I have received I 
                  have gotten so far, we are off about $1.5 million.  I know what people say they need, 
                  but as you know this is important.  We need to ask everyone to purchase just a bit 
                  more . . .if I have to walk into [McMillan’s] office and tell him we are short again, 
                  that is going to be a major problem. 

           14. After receiving the above email, one of the sales persons who reported to Mack emailed a 
               colleague separately and wrote: 

                  I was just speaking with [Mack] and had finance listened to us last year we wouldn’t 
                  be in this mess.  We all predicted our markets could not sustain this growth but they 
                  got greedy.  Found this budget brutal because here we are for another year just 
                  estimating the dollars. 

           D.  Mack and McMillan Negotiate Transactions and Term Amendments with Brazilian 
               Distributor 
                
           15. OSI had several international distributors during the relevant period, but its largest 
               distributor of product was located in Brazil (hereinafter “the Brazilian Distributor”).  In 
               fact, for eight of the nine quarters from Q1 2011 to Q1 2013, the Brazilian Distributor 
               was the Company’s second largest customer on a revenue per quarter basis. 

                                                        4 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        

           16. Entering 2012, the Brazilian Distributor’s amounts payable to Orthofix was 
              approximately $11 million.  In March 2012, McMillan and Mack had discussions with 
              the Brazilian Distributor to address this issue.  The Brazilian Distributor agreed to pay 
              approximately $4.2 million of the amounts payable by the end of FY 2012 but only if the 
              company delivered certain products by the end of April 2012.  Orthofix did not, however, 
              deliver the products by the end of April 2012. 

           17. In late May 2012, the Brazilian Distributor President and McMillan had a face-to-face 
              meeting.  As reflected in June 2012 email communications among the Brazilian 
              Distributor President, McMillan, Mack, and other employees, the Brazilian Distributor 
              President and McMillan discussed two things at that meeting. 

           18. First – since Orthofix had not delivered the products that the Brazilian Distributor had 
              insisted upon by the end of April 2012 – the Brazilian Distributor President informed 
              McMillan (and later Mack through June 2012 emails memorializing those discussions) 
              that it would only pay $1.6 million of its amounts payable in December 2012 and $2.6 
              million in February 2013.   

           19. Second, McMillan discussed a product launch plan with the Brazilian Distributor to 
              purchase approximately $2.5 million of an FDA approved Orthofix product called 
              Firebird.  This product, however, had not yet been approved by ANVISA (the Brazilian 
              equivalent of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration), and therefore, could not be 
              shipped into Brazil until such approval was obtained by the Brazilian Distributor.  
              Neither Mack nor McMillan knew exactly when ANVISA would grant approval. 

           20. As reflected by June 2012 emails between the Brazilian Distributor, Mack, and 
              McMillan, the Brazilian Distributor agreed to place the Firebird order on the following 
              conditions: (i) one year to pay for the product contingent on ANVISA approval and (ii) 
              210 days to pay on all subsequent product orders. 

           21. Mack and McMillan agreed to the payment plan proposal and the Firebird order terms 
              without approval from the Spine CFO. 

           22. The Spine CFO learned of the Firebird transaction a few weeks after the Firebird product 
              had already been shipped.  In particular, on July 24, 2012 Mack forwarded the Spine 
              CFO an email describing the transaction along with a series of emails containing prior 
              discussions among him, McMillan, other employees, and the Brazilian Distributor’s 
              President. 

           23. The Spine CFO replied to both McMillan and Mack “[Ken], can you please address how 
              we ended up with a full year to pay for the June order.  I have a hard time managing that 
              with a lot of pressure to reduce our ballooning [Days Sales Outstanding].”  Mack replied, 
              “we accepted this due to the need for that size of an order.” 

                                                      5 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        

           24. Orthofix recognized over $2 million in revenue from this transaction immediately upon 
              shipping the implants to the Brazilian Distributor’s U.S. based subsidiary located in 
              Atlanta, Georgia.  In particular, Orthofix’s recognition of revenue in this regard was 
              improper because the Brazilian Distributor’s obligation to pay, and the payment terms 
              themselves, were contingent upon ANVISA approval and, therefore, revenue recognition 
              was inconsistent with Orthofix’s accounting policy because it did not meet the fixed or 
              determinable criteria or the collectability criteria.   

           25. On December 1, 2012, Mack emailed the Brazilian Distributor’s President and the Spine 
              CFO and wrote “I believe you have been speaking with [the Spine CFO] about the end of 
              the year payment of $4 million.  They are all extremely anxious about this.  This has to 
              happen as agreed.”  By this time, McMillan had left the company. 

           26. The Brazilian Distributor’s President replied “No [the Spine CFO] did not communicate 
              with me, certainly because it is quite clear this was agreed with [McMillan].  We will pay 
              $1.6 million in December.” 

           27. Mack forwarded this email to the Spine CFO, writing “this is a disaster,” despite the fact 
              that Mack had been informed in June 2012 that the Brazilian Distributor would only pay 
              $1.6 million in December 2012 as a result of the failure to deliver certain products by 
              April 30, 2012. 

           28. Ultimately, Orthofix filed its FY 2012 Form 10-K in March 2013 and did not, among 
              other things, adequately assess the collectability of the significant receivables it had with 
              the Brazilian Distributor. 

           E.  Mack Improperly Negotiates Transactions with Spanish and Mexican Distributors 

           29. In July 2012, Mack, without getting the approval of the Spine CFO, solicited a Spanish 
              Distributor of Orthofix product to place an $810,000 order in which he offered the 
              distributor certain concessions, which he characterized as the “deal of the century.”  The 
              concessions included extended payment terms on the order and the right to return 
              $250,000 of excess distributor inventory that resulted from the order.  The Spanish 
              Distributor placed this order. 

           30. In September 2012, Mack, again without getting the approval of the Spine CFO, solicited 
              a Mexican Distributor of Orthofix product to place a $300,000 order in which he offered 
              the Distributor a number of concessions.  The concessions included extended payment 
              terms on the order, payment of $60,000 in taxes for the Distributor to the Mexican tax 
              authorities, expansion of sales territory and reduction in sales quotas for the next year.  
              The Mexican Distributor placed this order. 

           31. Orthofix recognized revenue from these transactions upon shipment of the products.  This 
              was improper because payment terms and timing were contingent upon certain extra-

                                                       6 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        

               contractual concessions and, therefore, revenue recognition was inconsistent with 
               Orthofix’s accounting policy because it did not meet the fixed or determinable criteria or 
               the collectability criteria.  

           F.  Mack Makes Inaccurate Representation to Auditors 

           32. Mack made an inaccurate representation to Orthofix’s independent auditors in connection 
               with their audit of the fiscal year 2012 financial statements.   

           33. In particular, under the direction of the-then Spine President (who was a principal 
               executive officer of the company), Mack provided a misleading written representation to 
               the independent auditor that stated inaccurately that the sales for which Mack was 
               responsible did not include side agreements outside the terms of the sales contracts, 
               extended payment terms, rights of return, or concessions. 

           G.  Orthofix’s Restatement 

           34. Orthofix materially misstated several of its annual and quarterly filings and 
               corresponding earnings releases, failed to make and keep books and records which, in 
               reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected the transactions and dispositions of the 
               assets of the issuer, and failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting 
               controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
               necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally 
               accepted accounting principles.   

           35. Accordingly – in late March 2014 – Orthofix restated its financial statements for the first 
               quarter of fiscal year 2013, all quarterly and annual periods in fiscal years 2012 and 2011, 
               and the annual period for fiscal year 2010 and acknowledged certain material weaknesses 
               in its internal control over financial reporting. 

                                                VIOLATIONS 

           36. Under Section 21C of the Exchange Act, the Commission may impose a cease-and-desist 
               order upon any person who is violating, has violated, or is about to violate any provision 
               of the Exchange Act and upon any person that is, was, or would be a cause of the 
               violation, due to an act or omission the person knew or should have known would 
               contribute to such violation. 

           37. Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to file such periodic and other reports 
               as the Commission may prescribe and in conformity with such rules as the Commission 
               may promulgate.  Exchange Act Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 require the filing of 
               annual, current, and quarterly reports, respectively.  In addition to the information 
               expressly required to be included in such reports, Rule 12b-20 of the Exchange Act 
               requires issuers to add such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to 
               make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which they are 
                                                       7 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

        

              made not misleading.  “The reporting provisions of the Exchange Act are clear and 
              unequivocal, and they are satisfied only by the filing of complete, accurate, and timely 
              reports.”  SEC v. Savoy Industries, 587 F.2d 1149, 1165 (D.C. Cir. 1978) (citing SEC v. 
              IMC Int’1, Inc., 384 F. Supp. 889, 893 (N.D. Tex. 1974)).  A violation of the reporting 
              provisions is established if a report is shown to contain materially false or misleading 
              information.  SEC v. Kalvex, Inc., 425 F. Supp. 310, 316 (S.D.N.Y. 1975). 

           38. Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to “make and keep books, 
              records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
              transactions and dispositions of the assets of the issuer.” 

           39. Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) prohibits any person from knowingly circumventing or 
              knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly 
              falsifying any book, record, or account described in Exchange Act Section 13(b)(2). 

           40. Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 prohibits any person from, directly or indirectly, falsifying or 
              causing to be falsified, any book, record, or account subject to Exchange Act Section 
              13(b)(2)(A). 

           41. Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2(b) prohibits any officer or director of an issuer or any other 
              person acting under the direction thereof from directly or indirectly taking any action to 
              mislead an accountant engaged in the performance of an audit if that person knew or 
              should have known that such action, if successful, could result in rendering the issuer’s 
              financial statements materially misleading. 

           42. As a result of the conduct described above, Mack and McMillan violated Exchange Act 
              Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1 and were a cause of Orthofix’s violations of Exchange 
              Act Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 
              thereunder.  Mack additionally violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2(b). 

                                                      IV. 

              In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
       agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 

              Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that: 

              A.     Pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents shall cease and desist 
       from committing or causing any violations and any future violations of Exchange Act Sections 
       13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), 13(b)(5) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13b2-1 thereunder.  
       Respondent Mack shall further cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
       any future violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2(b). 

                                                       8 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

        

               B.     Within 30 days of the entry of this order, Mack shall pay a civil money penalty of 
       $40,000 and McMillan shall pay a civil money penalty of $25,000.  If timely payment is not 
       made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. § 3717. 

               C.     Payment must be made in one of the following three ways: 

                      (1) Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                                                                                                2
                          will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request   ; 

                      (2) Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                          through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofin.htm; or 

                      (3) Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                          States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                          Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to: 

                      Enterprise Services Center 
                      Accounts Receivable Branch 
                      HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
                      6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
                      Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

               Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the 
       Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover 
       letter and check or money order must be sent to Antonia Chion, Division of Enforcement, 
       Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549-5720. 

               D.     Pursuant to Section 308(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended, a Fair 
       Fund is created for the penalties referenced in paragraph IV.B above.  This Fair Fund may be added 
       to or combined with the fair fund established in In the Matter of Orthofix International, N.V., (AP 
       File No. 3-17791; Release No.10281, January 18, 2017) and/or may be added to or combined with 
       fair funds established for the civil penalties paid by other Respondents for conduct arising in relation 
       to the violative conduct at issue in this proceeding or the Orthofix proceeding, in order for the 
       combined fair funds to be distributed to harmed investors affected by the same violative conduct.  
       Regardless of whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as civil 
       money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all 
       purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, 
       Respondent agrees that in any Related Investor Action, it shall not argue that it is entitled to, nor 
       shall it benefit by, offset or reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of 
                                                        

       2
               The minimum threshold for transmission of payment electronically is $1,000,000.  For amounts below the 
       threshold, respondents must make payments pursuant to option (2) or (3) above. 

                                                        9 
 

 

 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

        

       any part of Respondent’s payment of a civil penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court 
       in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondent agrees that it shall, 
       within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's 
       counsel in this action and pay the amount of the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange 
       Commission.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be 
       deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of 
       this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” means a private damages action brought against 
       Respondent by or on behalf of one or more investors based on substantially the same facts as 
       alleged in the Order instituted by the Commission in this proceeding.  

               E.     It is further ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in 
       Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and 
       admitted by Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil 
       penalty or other amounts due by Respondent under this Order or any other judgment, order, 
       consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a 
       debt for the violation by Respondent of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order 
       issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. 
       §523(a)(19).  

               By the Commission. 

                                                           

                                                          Brent J. Fields 
                                                          Secretary 
        

        
       DMS4415287v7  

                                                       10 
 

 

 
