---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                                                                            
 
                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 75086 / June 1, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3660 / June 1, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16569 
 
                                              CORRECTED  ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                              CEASE-AND-DESIST PR OCEEDINGS 
                                              PURSUANT TO SECTION  21C OF THE 
      FIRST BANCORP,  ANNA                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
      HOLLERS, AND TERESA                     MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
      NIXON                                   CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER   
 
Respondent s. 
 
 
 
 
                                                
 
                                           I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission deems it appropriate that cease-and-desist 
proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 against First Bancorp, Anna Hollers and Teresa Nixon (“Respondents”).   
                                            
                                          II. 
                                            
      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V, Respondents 
consent to the entry of this Order, as set forth below.    
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                III. 
 
                                                                                   1
       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds     :  
 
                                             Summary 
 
       Over a three year period, First Bancorp failed to disclose related party transactions involving 
family members of the company’s former Chief Operating Officer Anna Hollers, former Chief Loan 
Officer Teresa Nixon, and a member of its Board of Directors – specifically, Ms. Hollers’ husband, 
Ms. Nixon’s daughter and son-in-law, and the Board member’s brother.   By failing to make these 
disclosures in its Forms 10-K for fiscal years 2009, 2010 and 2011, First Bancorp violated SEC 
disclosure rules requiring public companies to disclose such relationships if the amounts involved 
exceeded $120,000.  First Bancorp also failed to have controls and procedures designed to ensure 
the company disclosed related party transactions as required.   
 
       Hollers caused certain of First Bancorp’s violations.  As COO, she oversaw the process for 
identifying related party transactions.  First Bancorp used a Director and Officer Questionnaire 
(“D&O Questionnaire”) as part of its related party disclosure process that required directors and 
executive officers to report transactions with family members in which the amounts involved 
exceeded $120,000 during the prior fiscal year.  Hollers was responsible for reviewing the D&O 
Questionnaires and informing the company’s Chief Financial Officer of issues that may require 
disclosure.  Hollers was also a member of First Bancorp’s Disclosure Committee.  Despite her 
disclosure responsibilities, Hollers did not adequately familiarize herself with the disclosure rules 
regarding related party transactions sufficient to ensure that First Bancorp met its disclosure 
obligations.  Moreover, though First Bancorp had paid her husband’s law firm over $200,000 in 
fiscal year 2009 and over $400,000 in fiscal year 2010, Hollers failed to disclose these facts, either 
in her D&O Questionnaire or otherwise, in connection with the company’s preparation of its Forms 
10-K for those periods.   
 
       Nixon, who was also a member of First Bancorp’s Disclosure Committee, caused certain of 
First Bancorp’s reporting violations.  Though she knew about company transactions involving her 
daughter and son-in-law, she failed to report these on her D&O Questionnaires or otherwise 
disclose them in connection with the company’s preparation of its periodic filings.  
 
                                         Respondents 
 
       1.      First Bancorp, a bank holding company, is incorporated in North Carolina and 
trades on the Nasdaq Global Select Market.  First Bancorp owns and operates First Bank, a state-
chartered bank with its main office in Southern Pines, North Carolina.   
                

                                                           
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.   
                                                   
                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

       2.      Anna Hollers, age 64, resides in Candor, North Carolina.  From 2005 until she 
retired from First Bancorp in April 2014, Hollers was the Chief Operating Officer of First 
Bancorp and First Bank.  Hollers served as Corporate Secretary of both entities from 1987 until 
she retired in 2014.  During the relevant period, Hollers was a member of First Bancorp’s 
Disclosure Committee.   
                
       3.      Teresa Nixon, age 57, resides in Sanford, North Carolina.  From 1997 until she 
left First Bancorp in March 2012, Nixon was First Bancorp’s Chief Loan Officer.  Among other 
responsibilities, Nixon oversaw the process for the sale, management, and disposition of 
foreclosed properties acquired from the FDIC through First Bancorp’s acquisition of failed 
banks’ assets.  During the relevant time period, Nixon was a member of First Bancorp’s 
Disclosure Committee.   
        
                                              FACTS 
                                                   
                First Bancorp’s Related Party Transaction Disclosure Process 
                                                   
       4.      Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K requires issuers to describe in their Forms 10-K any 
transaction exceeding $120,000 in which the registrant was or is to be a participant and in which 
any related person had or will have a direct or indirect material interest.  The instructions to Item 
404(a) define related person to include any director or executive officer of a registrant and any 
immediate family members of a director or executive officer, such as spouses, children, certain in-
laws, and siblings.   
        
       5.      Similarly, Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 850, Related Party 
Disclosures, requires companies to include in their financial statements disclosures of material 
related party transactions.  ASC Topic 850-10-05-3 provides that related party transactions include 
transactions between an entity and its management or members of their immediate families. 
        
       6.      During the relevant period, First Bancorp directors and executive officers reported 
related party transactions either by disclosing the transactions to the company’s Board of 
Directors or through the company’s annual D&O Questionnaire.  Among other things, the D&O 
Questionnaire asked First Bancorp directors and executive officers to: 
        
       Describe any transaction, or series of transactions … or any currently proposed 
       transaction or series of similar transactions, to which the Company … was, or is, 
       to be a participant in which the amount involved exceeds $120,000 and in which 
       you or any member of your Immediate Family had, or will have, a direct or 
                        2
       indirect interest. 
        
                                                           
2
        Emphasis in original.  The D&O Questionnaire also had an appendix of definitions that defined “Immediate 
Family” to include “your spouse, parents, stepparents, children, stepchildren, siblings, mothers and fathers-in-law, 
sons and daughters-in-law, brothers and sisters-in-law and any other person sharing your household (other tenants or 
employees).” 
 
                                                   
                                                 3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       7.     Hollers oversaw the process for identifying related party transactions.  She 
distributed the D&O Questionnaires to the company’s directors and executive officers.  After the 
directors and executive officers completed the D&O Questionnaires, they sent them to Hollers, 
who was responsible for reviewing them to assess whether there were any notable conflicts, 
issues or transactions.  If so, she was responsible for reporting them to First Bancorp’s CFO.  
First Bancorp’s CFO would then prepare any required disclosures of related party transactions 
that Hollers had identified for the company’s filings with the Commission.   
        
       8.     Although First Bancorp relied on Hollers to identify related party transactions, 
Hollers did not adequately familiarize herself with the disclosure rules regarding related party 
transactions sufficient to ensure that First Bancorp met its disclosure obligations in its filings with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission.  No one other than Hollers at First Bancorp reviewed 
the D&O Questionnaires to determine whether the company needed to make related party 
disclosures.  First Bancorp’s CFO relied on Hollers to inform him of related party transactions 
that may have required disclosure so that he could ensure the company complied with its 
disclosure obligations. 
   
                 First Bancorp Failed to Report Six Related Party Transactions in  
                        its Forms 10-K for Fiscal Years 2009, 2010 and 2011 
                                                     
A.     First Bancorp Failed to Disclose Payments to the Law Firm of Hollers’ Husband 
        
       9.     Hollers’ husband was a partner at a law firm that had performed legal work for 
First Bancorp for over thirty years.  First Bancorp typically paid the firm less than $15,000 in 
fees annually for this work.  Each year, First Bancorp’s Board approved the company’s hiring of 
the law firm.  The Board knew Hollers was married to a partner in the firm.   
        
       10.    In 2008, First Bancorp began to pay the law firm larger amounts for an increased 
amount of legal work and trustee work related to foreclosure proceedings.   These amounts 
included reimbursed costs related to the trustee work.  In fiscal year 2009, First Bancorp paid the 
law firm a total of $214,754, consisting of $109,745 in fees and $105,009 in reimbursed costs.  
In fiscal year 2010, First Bancorp paid the firm $407,087, consisting of $195,030 in fees and 
$212,057 in reimbursed costs.   
        
       11.    Though Hollers disclosed on her D&O Questionnaires for fiscal years 2009 and 
2010 that her husband’s law firm did work for First Bancorp, she did not disclose the amount it 
had received in fees and reimbursed costs, nor did she otherwise inform First Bancorp’s Board or 
CFO that the combined amounts exceeded $120,000.  No one other than Hollers reviewed her 
D&O Questionnaires for the years in question.  As a consequence, First Bancorp did not disclose 
the related party transactions involving Hollers in its Forms 10-K for fiscal years 2009 and 2010 
as required by Regulation S-K Item 404(a). 
        
        
        
        

                                                 
                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        
        
B.     First Bancorp’s Failures to Disclose Related Party Transactions Involving Nixon 
        
                         First Bancorp Failed to Disclose Payments to  
                  Nixon’s Daughter and Son-in-Law for Landscaping Services 
                                                     
       12.    During fiscal year 2010, First Bancorp paid Southland Landscaping, a company 
owned and operated by Nixon’s daughter and son-in-law, $225,970 for landscaping services on 
First Bancorp’s foreclosed properties.  Nixon, who knew that her daughter and son-in-law owned 
Southland and that it was performing services for First Bancorp, did not disclose this relationship 
in her D&O Questionnaire or otherwise.  Accordingly, First Bancorp did not disclose this related 
party transaction in its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2010 as required by Regulation S-K Item 
404(a). 
        
                           First Bancorp Failed to Disclose a Home  
                    Sale Agreement with Nixon’s Daughter and Son-in-Law 
        
       13.    In its fiscal year 2010 Form 10-K, First Bancorp failed to disclose that it had 
agreed to sell property to Nixon’s daughter and son-in-law.  In November 2010, Nixon approved 
a sales agreement between First Bancorp and her daughter and son-in-law whereby the company 
contracted to sell them a foreclosed property for $250,000.   Nixon did not disclose this 
agreement in her D&O Questionnaire for fiscal year 2010 or otherwise.  Accordingly, First 
Bancorp did not disclose this related party transaction in its Form 10-K for that year as required 
by Regulation S-K Item 404(a). 
                                                     
                              First Bancorp Failed to Disclose a   
                           Loan to Nixon’s Daughter and Son-in-Law 
                                                     
       14.    To finance the home purchase described above, First Bancorp loaned $241,000 to 
Nixon’s daughter and son-in-law in May 2011.  This loan was required to be separately disclosed 
as a related-party transaction because it was not made on the same terms as those available to the 
general public.  The loan documents reflected an inaccurate loan-to-value percentage, which, 
under First Bancorp’s policy at the time, should have been based on the property’s sale price.  
The loan underwriting documentation instead used the property’s appraisal price.  In addition, 
the loan underwriting documentation failed to disclose the family’s prior bankruptcy.  The First 
Bank Regional Executive who approved the loan would not have done so if the loan documents 
had been factually correct. Nixon did not disclose this loan in her D&O Questionnaire for fiscal 
year 2011 or otherwise.  Although other First Bancorp management learned of the loan to 
Nixon’s daughter and son-in-law as part of its own internal investigation prior to filing its Proxy 
Statement for fiscal year 2011, the company treated the loan as one in the ordinary course of 
business and thus failed to adequately disclose this related party transaction in its Form 10-K for 
fiscal year 2011 as required by Regulation S-K Item 404(a). 
        
        

                                                 
                                               5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        
                                                        
C.     First Bancorp Failed to Disclose Payments Made to the Brother of One of its Directors 
        
       15.    First Bancorp also failed to disclose in its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2010 that it 
had paid a brother of one of First Bancorp’s Directors (the “Director”) over $120,000.   
        
       16.    In September 2009, First Bancorp hired the Director’s brother as the real estate 
agent and property manager for a portfolio of foreclosed properties that First Bancorp obtained 
as a result of its FDIC acquisition of Cooperative Bank’s assets in June 2009.  In fiscal year 
2010, First Bancorp paid the Director’s brother $317,686 in commissions for property sales 
services and reimbursed him $389,000 for out-of-pocket expenses for property management 
services.  At 4.7% of First Bancorp’s net income in fiscal year 2010, these combined payments 
to the Director’s brother, which were legitimate business expenses, were material.   The 
payments made to the Director’s brother in fiscal year 2010 were required to be disclosed in First 
Bancorp’s Form 10-K because of the sibling relationship between the two individuals. 
        
       17.    Though he did not know the amounts involved, the Director disclosed that his 
brother had a relationship with the company in his D&O Questionnaire for fiscal year 2010, and 
First Bancorp’s Board discussed that the Director’s brother was performing work for the 
company during a February 2011 Board meeting.  However, First Bancorp did not determine the 
amounts it paid the Director’s brother before it filed its Form 10-K for fiscal year 2010.  First 
Bancorp did not disclose this related party transaction in this filing as required by Regulation S-
K Item 404(a) and ASC 850. 
 
                                                 Violations 
                                                        
       18.    As a result of the conduct described above, First Bancorp violated and Nixon and 
Hollers caused First Bancorp’s violations of Exchange Act Section 13(a) and Rule 13a-1 
thereunder, which require that issuers of securities registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 
12 file with the Commission, among other things, current and accurate information in annual 
reports. 
         
       19.    As a result of the conduct described above, First Bancorp violated and Hollers 
caused First Bancorp’s violation of Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(a), which provides that every 
issuer of a security registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12 must maintain disclosure 
                         3
controls and procedures.      

                                                           
3
        Rule 13a-15(e) defines “disclosure controls and procedures” as “controls and other procedures of an issuer 
that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the issuer in the reports that it files or 
submits under the [Exchange] Act … is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods 
specified in the Commission’s rules and forms.  Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, 
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by an issuer in the reports that 
it files or submits under the [Exchange] Act is accumulated and communicated to the issuer’s management, 
including its principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as 
appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.” 
                                                    
                                                   6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        
       20.    As a result of the conduct described above, First Bancorp violated Exchange Act 
Section 13(b)(2)(B), which requires all reporting companies to devise and maintain a system of 
internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are 
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. 
 
                               First Bancorp’s Remedial Efforts 

       In determining to accept First Bancorp’s Offer, the Commission considered remedial acts 
promptly undertaken by First Bancorp and cooperation afforded the Commission staff.  

                                               IV. 
                                                 
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
              A.     First Bancorp cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 
and 13a-15 thereunder. 
               
              B.     Anna Hollers cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1 and 13a-15 
thereunder.  
               
              C.     Teresa Nixon cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13a-1 thereunder.  
               
              D.     Within seven days of entry of this Order, First Bancorp shall pay a civil 
money penalty of $275,000; Hollers shall pay a civil monetary penalty of $15,000; and Nixon shall 
pay a civil monetary penalty of $20,000 to the Securities and Exchange Commission for transfer to 
the general fund of the United States Treasury in accordance with Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  
If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.  
Payment must be made in one of the following ways:   
        
              (1)     Respondents may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, 
       which will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
        
              (2)     Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
       through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
        
              (3)     Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
       States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
       hand-delivered or mailed to:  
                                                 
                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

        
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
        
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the 
Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover 
letter and check or money order must be sent to Stephen L. Cohen, Associate Director, Division 
of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 100 F St., NE, Washington, DC 20549.  
        
               E.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order 
shall be treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against any of the Respondents by or on behalf of one or 
more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
 
                                                   V. 

       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth 
in Section 523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and 
admitted by Respondents, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, civil 
penalty or other amounts due by Respondents under this Order or any other judgment, order, 
consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with this proceeding, is a debt 
for the violations by Respondents of the federal securities laws or any regulation or order issued 
under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                     Brent J. Fields 
                                                     Secretary 

                                                  
                                                8 
