---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 72938A / August 28, 2014 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3578A / August 28, 2014 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16045 
 
                                           CORRECTED ORDER INSTITUTING 
In the Matter of                           CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS 
                                           PURSUANT TO SECTION 21C OF THE 
      Lynn R. Blodgett and                 SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, 
      Kevin R. Kyser, CPA                  MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING A 
                                           CEASE-AND-DESIST ORDER  
Respondents. 
 
                                               
                                          I. 

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that cease-
and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Lynn R. Blodgett (“Blodgett”), and Kevin R. Kyser 
(“Kyser”).  

                                         II. 

      In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Blodgett and Kyser have submitted 
an Offer of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for 
the purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Cease-
and-Desist Proceedings Pursuant to Section 21C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Making 
Findings, and Imposing a Cease-and-Desist Order (“Order”), as set forth below. 

 

                                          1 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                               III. 

       On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offer, the Commission finds  1
                                                                                  that: 

                                            Summary 

       1.      At or near the end of each quarter ended September 30, 2008 through the quarter 
ended June 30, 2009, Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. (“ACS”) arranged for an equipment 
manufacturer to re-direct certain of its pre  -existing orders through ACS, which gave the 
appearance that ACS was involved.  ACS, however, had no substantive involvement in the orders, 
and there were no changes to the terms of the pre-existing orders.  Because of the nature of these 
arrangements, ACS should not have reported revenue from these arrangements and therefore 
misreported revenues in its financial reports filed on Form 10-K and Forms 10-Q for these periods.  
As a result, ACS falsely reported its internal revenue growth, which Blodgett and Kyser 
highlighted in earnings releases and analyst conference calls during the period.2
                                                                                 In addition, 
ACS’s periodic filings with the Commission inadequately or incompletely described these   so-
called “resale transactions.”  ACS improperly reported approximately $125 million in revenue due 
to such arrangements.   
        
       2.      During all relevant periods, Respondents Blodgett and Kyser were, respectively, 
ACS’s chief executive officer and chief financial officer.  As such, they were responsible for the 
content of ACS’s filings with the Commission, as well as ACS’s earnings releases and analyst 
conference calls.  Blodgett and Kyser received bonuses that were higher than they would have 
been had ACS correctly applied generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) with respect to 
determining the amount of revenue to report from the “resale transactions.”3
                                                                            
        
       3.      Based on the conduct described below, Respondents were a cause of ACS’s 
violations of the reporting, record-keeping, and internal controls provisions of the Exchange Act.  
In addition, Blodgett and Kyser violated the Exchange Act’s certification requirements relating to 
ACS’s Forms 10-Q for each fiscal quarter from September 30, 2008 through March 31, 2009 and 
ACS’s Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2009.  
        
                                          Respondents 

       4.      Lynn R. Blodgett, age 59, served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of 
ACS from November 2006 and as a director from September 2005 until Xerox Corporation 
acquired ACS in February 2010.  Following Xerox Corporation’s acquisition of ACS, Blodgett 
                                                 
1
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offer of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
2
       Internal revenue growth was a non-GAAP measure that ACS disclosed “to provide both management and 
investors a more complete understanding of the Company’s underlying operational trends and results.” 
 
3
       Financial statements filed with the Commission that are not prepared in accordance with GAAP are 
presumed to be misleading or inaccurate.  Regulation S-X 210.4-01 [17 C.F.R. § 210.4-01]. 

                                                2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

became an executive vice president of Xerox Corporation and has served as the President of Xerox 
Services since January 2012.   

       5.     Kevin R. Kyser, age 44, served as an executive vice president and the Chief 
Financial Officer of ACS from September 2007 until Xerox Corporation acquired ACS in 
February 2010.  Following Xerox Corporation’s acquisition of ACS, Kyser continued as ACS’s 
Chief Financial Officer until named the Chief Operating Officer of Xerox’s Information 
Technology Outsourcing Group in January 2012, a position he held until he resigned in May 2013.  
Kyser’s license as a certified public accountant in the state of Texas expired in April 2008. 

                                       Relevant Entity 

       6.     Affiliated Computer Services, Inc. was a Delaware corporation headquartered in 
Dallas, Texas during the relevant period.  The registration of ACS’s common stock pursuant to 
12(b) of the Exchange Act was withdrawn following ACS’s merger in February 2010 with a 
subsidiary of Xerox Corporation, and the ACS corporate entity was subsequently dissolved. 

                                            Facts 

       7.     ACS provided business process outsourcing and information technology services 
through two reportable operating segments: the Commercial Services Group, which accounted for 
approximately 60% of ACS’s fiscal year 2009 revenues, and the Government Services Group, 
which accounted for the remaining 40% of ACS’s revenues.  ACS historically generated 
approximately 85% of its revenues from recurring, long-term contracts and 15% from non-
recurring transactions.  The “resale transactions” discussed below originated in ACS’s Commercial 
Services Group and were classified as non-recurring revenue. 

                  ACS mischaracterized    “resale transactions” to increase revenue 

       8.     In its Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2008, ACS disclosed that its 
primary goal for fiscal year 2009 was to increase internal revenue growth.  In an August 7, 2008 
analyst call, Blodgett characterized ACS as “well positioned to accelerate internal revenue growth 
in fiscal year 2009.” 
        
       9.     Shortly before the end of its first quarter of fiscal year 2009, ACS noted that the 
company’s revenue would, at current rates, fall short of company guidance and consensus analyst 
expectations.  To increase revenue, ACS arranged for an equipment manufacturer to re-direct 
through ACS approximately $20 million of pre-existing orders that the manufacturer already had 
received from another reseller.  ACS’s transaction documents gave the appearance that ACS was 
involved in the “resale transactions,” but ACS in fact had no such involvement.  Among other 
things, even after ACS was inserted into the “resale transactions,” the pricing for equipment 
remained unchanged, the equipment continued to be shipped from the manufacturer directly to the 
reseller’s customers (i.e., ACS never had actual or constructive possession of it), and the reseller’s 
customers were unaware that ACS was involved.  In short, these pre-existing orders between the 
manufacturer and other reseller proceeded in all material respects according to their original terms 
and were unaffected by ACS’s late insertion.     
                                              3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       10.     ACS executed virtually identical “resale transactions” at the end of the next three 
quarters.4
           In total, ACS reported revenue of $124.5 million from such arrangements during fiscal 
2009. 

                                  ACS’s improper accounting 

       11.     ACS improperly applied GAAP in determining the amount of revenue to report in 
each of its quarters in FY 2009.  In making a determination of the amount of revenue to report, 
ACS did not appropriately take into account all of the critical terms of the arrangement and 
therefore failed to reflect the lack of economic substance of the “resale transactions” under GAAP.  
In addition, ACS’s internal controls were insufficient to provide reasonable assurance that ACS 
reported revenues in conformity with GAAP, primarily because ACS failed to appropriately 
evaluate the economic substance of the “resale transactions.” 

       12.     The revenue from these “resale transactions” enabled ACS to meet its publicly 
disclosed internal revenue growth (“IRG”) guidance for three of the four quarters for that fiscal 
year.  ACS missed its guidance for its third quarter even with the improperly reported revenue.  
The table below summarizes the amount of the resale revenue (as reported), ACS’s public IRG 
guidance, IRG (as reported), IRG (as adjusted), and the percent misstated by quarter and for the 
year: 

                “Resale”      ACS’s                                                         
                Revenue       Public                                                      % 
              (as reported)    IRG           IRG             IRG         IRG Over       Over 
   Period      ($ in millions)   Guidance (as reported)  (as adjusted)   Statement   Statement 
   Q1 2009       $   19.9       5%            5%            3.4%            1.6%           47% 
   Q2 2009       $   40.6      4-5%           4%            1.2%            2.8%          233% 
   Q3 2009       $   39.7      5-6%           3%           (0.2)%           3.2%        1,600% 
   Q4 2009       $   24.2       3%            3%            1.7%            1.3%           76% 
   FY 2009       $ 124.5       5-6%           3%            1.5%            1.5%          100% 

      ACS failed to properly disclose the “resale transactions  ” and their impact on IRG  

       13.     Even though the “resale transactions” were the largest contributors to ACS’s 
internal revenue growth, ACS did not disclose them in its September 30, 2008 Form 10-Q.  In 
subsequent quarters, ACS disclosed these transactions as “information technology outsourcing 
related to deliveries of hardware and software.”  This description did not accurately disclose the 
nature of these transactions and falsely suggested that they were executed as part of existing ACS 
outsourcing contracts.     

                                                 
4
       Contemporaneous with the “resale transactions” executed for the quarters ended September 30, 2008 and 
December 31, 2008, ACS also agreed to purchase equipment from the equipment manufacturer or the reseller. 

                                                4  
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       14.    Blodgett and Kyser understood the origination of these “resale transactions” and 
their impact on ACS’s reported revenue growth.  However, Blodgett and Kyser did not ensure that 
ACS adequately described their significance in ACS’s public filings and on analyst calls.  Blodgett 
and Kyser certified each of ACS’s fiscal year 2009 Forms 10-Q and 10-K.     

                               Blodgett’s and Kyser’s bonuses 

       15.    As part of their compensation, Blodgett and Kyser received bonus payments that 
were, in part, tied to ACS’s financial performance, including revenue growth.  As a result of the 
improperly reported revenue, Blodgett and Kyser received bonuses based on fiscal 2009 
performance that were 43% higher than they would have received if ACS had properly applied 
GAAP with respect to determining the amount of revenue to report from the resale transactions.   

                                          Violations 

       16.    ACS violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 
and 13a-13 thereunder by filing Forms 8-K, 10-Q, and 10-K for fiscal 2009 that improperly 
reported revenue related to the resale transactions, materially misstated ACS’s internal revenue 
growth and either inadequately or incompletely described the significance of the resale transactions 
to internal revenue growth. Blodgett and Kyser were a cause of ACS’s violations of these 
provisions. 

       17.    ACS violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) by keeping books and records that inaccurately 
reported ACS’s resale transactions during fiscal year 2009.  ACS also violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) 
by failing to devise and maintain a system of internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded and financial statements are prepared in accordance with 
GAAP. Blodgett and Kyser were a cause of ACS’s violations of these provisions. 

       18.    As a result of the conduct described above, Blodgett and Kyser violated Rule 
13a-14 under the Exchange Act, which sets forth the requirements for certain reports filed under 
Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act to include specified certifications by each principal executive 
and principal financial officer of the issuer.    

                                              IV. 

       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offer. 
 
            Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED that     : 
 
       A.     Respondent Blodgett cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
              and any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 
              Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13a-14 thereunder; 

       B.     Respondent Kyser cease and desist from committing or causing any violations and 
              any future violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 
              Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13, and 13a-14 thereunder; 
                                               5  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

C.     Respondent Blodgett  shall, within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, pay 
       disgorgement of $351,050 and prejudgment interest of $61,682 to the United States 
       Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant 
       to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Further, Respondent Blodgett shall, within thirty (30) 
       days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $52,000 
       to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest 
       shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. 

D.     Respondent Kyser shall, within thirty (30) days of the entry of this Order, pay 
       disgorgement of $133,192 and prejudgment interest of $23,403 to the United States 
       Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue pursuant 
       to SEC Rule of Practice 600.  Further, Respondent Kyser shall, within thirty (30) 
       days of the entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $52,000 
       to the United States Treasury.  If timely payment is not made, additional interest 
       shall accrue pursuant to 31 U.S.C. 3717. 

E.     Payment must be made in one of the following ways: 

       (1) Respondents may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
       through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  

       (2) Respondents may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United States 
       postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange Commission and 
       hand-delivered or mailed to: 

              Enterprise Services Center 
              Accounts Receivable Branch 
              HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
              6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
              Oklahoma City, OK 73169 

       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter 
       identifying Lynn Blodgett or Kevin Kyser as a Respondent in these proceedings, 
       and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover letter and check or 
       money order must be sent to David L. Peavler, Associate Regional Director, Fort 
       Worth Regional Office, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange 
       Commission, 801 Cherry Street, Suite 1900, Fort Worth, Texas, 76102. 

F.     Such civil money penalties may be distributed pursuant to Section 308(a) of the 
       Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, as amended (“Fair Fund distribution”).  Regardless of 
       whether any such Fair Fund distribution is made, amounts ordered to be paid as 
       civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be treated as penalties paid to the 
       government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To preserve the deterrent 
       effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor Action, 
       they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or 
       reduction of any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of 

                                       6  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

               Respondents’ payment of a civil penalty in this action ("Penalty Offset").  If the 
               court in any Related Investor Action grants such a Penalty Offset, Respondents 
               agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order granting the Penalty 
               Offset, notify the Commission's counsel in this action and pay the amount of the 
               Penalty Offset to the United States Treasury or to a Fair Fund, as the Commission 
               directs.  Such a payment shall not be deemed an additional civil penalty and shall 
               not be deemed to change the amount of the civil penalty imposed in this 
               proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a "Related Investor Action" means a 
               private damages action brought against either Respondent by or on behalf of one or 
               more investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order 
               instituted by the Commission in this proceeding. 

        

       By the Commission. 

 
 
 
                                                    Jill M. Peterson 
                                                    Assistant Secretary 

                                                7  
