---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80507 / April 21, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3866 / April 21, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17938 
 
                                                       ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                       ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS 
                                                        PURSUANT TO RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       MARK MCKINNIES, CPA,                COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
                                                        MAKING FINDINGS, AND IMPOSING 
Respondent. 
                                                        REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
 
 
 
 
                                                        
                                                  I. 
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative  proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted  against Mark 
McKinnies (“Respondent” or “McKinnies”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
                  1
Rules of Practice.    
                                                    
                                                  II. 
 
       In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, and without admitting  or denying the findings   
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over him and the subject matter of these 
                                               
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides,  in relevant part, that: 
 
       The Commission,  with due regard to the public  interest and without  prelimina   ry  hearing, 
may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing  before it any . . . accountant . . . who has 
been by name . . . permanently enjoined  by any court of competent jurisdiction,  by reason of his 
or her misconduct  in an action brought by th  e Commission,  from violating  or aiding  and abetting 
the violation  of any provision  of the Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations 
thereunder. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proceedings, and the findings  contained in Section III.3 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting  Administrative  Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice, Making Findings,  and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                                III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       1.      McKinnies, age 65, was a certified public accountant licensed to practice in the State 
of Colorado until he allowed the license to expire in 2013.  He served as Chief Financial Officer and 
a member of the Board of Directors of Advanced Emissions Solutions,  Inc. and its predecessor 
                                                       2
entity, ADA-ES, Inc. (together, “Advanced Emissions”)  from 1996 until  2014. 
        
       2.      Advanced Emissions was, at all relevant times, a Delaware corporation with its 
principal place of business in Colorado.  Advanced Emissions provides environmental solutions  to 
customers primarily  in the power generation industry.  At all relevant times, Advanced Emissions’ 
shares were registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(“Exchange Act”) and traded on the NASDAQ National Market.  The shares were de-listed from 
the NASDAQ National Market as of March 30, 2015 and were re-listed on the NASDAQ Global 
Market as of July 7, 2016. 
 
       3.      On April 19, 2017, a final judgment was entered against McKinnies, permanently 
enjoining  him from future violations  of Sections 17(a)(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 and 
Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act, in the civil  action entitled Securities and Exchange 
Commission  v. Mark McKinnies, Civil  Action Number 17-cv-00566-JDB, in the United States 
District Court for the District of the District of Columbia.  McKinnies was also ordered to pay 
$126,808  in disgorgement of ill-gotten  gains, and $11,884  in prejudgment interest, and a $100,000 
civil  money penalty. 
 
       4.      The Commission’s complaint  alleged, among other things, that McKinnies violated 
the federal securities laws by approving and signing  Advanced Emissions’ periodic reports, a 
registration statement and other public filings  that included materially misstated financial 
statements.  The complaint alleged that McKinnies reviewed and approved financial statements for 
Advanced Emissions included in filings  with the Commission  that violated Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (“GAAP”).  The complaint alleged that Advanced Emissions, among other 
things:  (a) failed to record a large loss contingency in connection with an adverse arbitration ruling 
against the company; (b) prematurely recognized revenues on long-term contracts; (c) failed to 
properly account for warranty accruals; (d) improperly consolidated a joint venture in Advanced 
Emissions’ balance sheet accounts; and (e) overstated revenues and gross profits from one of its 
subsidiaries.  The complaint also alleged that McKinnies oversaw the inaccurate recording of 
transactions in the company’s books and records.   

                                               
2
       In 2013, the company undertook a restructuring pursuant to which Advanced Emissions 
Solutions, Inc. replaced ADA-ES, Inc. as the public, reporting company and ADA-ES, Inc. became a 
subsidiary of Advanced Emissions Solutions, Inc. 
                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

        
                                                IV. 
                                                  
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent McKinnies’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately,  that: 
 
       A.      Respondent McKinnies is suspended from appearing or practicing before the 
Commission  as an accountant.   
 
       B.      After five years from the date of this Order, Respondent may request that the 
Commission  consider his reinstatement by submitting  an application (attention: Office of the 
Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
               1.      a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible  for the preparation or 
review, of any public  company’s financial  statements that are filed  with the Commission.   Such 
an application  must satisfy the Commission  that Respondent’s work in his practice before the 
Commission  will  be reviewed either by the independent  audit committee of the public  company 
for which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long  as he practices before the 
Commission  in this capacity; and/or 
 
               2.      an independent accountant.  Such an application must satisfy the 
Commission  that: 
 
                       (a)    Respondent, or the public  accounting firm with which he is 
associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting  Oversight Board (“Board”) in 
accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration  continues to be effective; 
 
                       (b)    Respondent, or the registered public  accounting firm with which he 
is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that inspection  did not identify  any criticisms 
of or potential  defects in the respondent’s or the firm’s quality  control system that would indicate 
that the respondent will  not receive appropriate supervision; 

                       (c)    Respondent has resolved all disciplinary  issues with the Board, and 
has complied  with all terms and conditions  of any sanctions imposed  by the Board (other than 
reinstatement by the Commission);  and 
 
                       (d)    Respondent acknowledges his responsibility,  as long as 
Respondent appears or practices before the Commission  as an independent  accountant, to 
comply  with all requirements of the Commission  and the Board, including,  but not limited  to, all 
requirements relating  to registration,  inspections,  concurring  partner reviews and quality  control 
standards.   
      
       C.     The Commission  will  consider an application  by Respondent to resume 
appearing or practicing  before the Commission  provided  that his state CPA license is 
                                                 3  
---------------------Page 4---------------------

current and he has resolved all other disciplinary  issues with the applicable  state boards of 
accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
Commission,  the Commission  will  consider an application  on its other merits.  The 
Commission’s  review may include consideration  of, in addition  to the matters referenced 
above, any other matters relating  to Respondent’s character, integrity,  professional  conduct, 
or qualifications  to appear or practice before the Commission. 
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 
 

                                                  4  
