---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                      Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 81173 / July 19, 2017 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4731 / July 19, 2017 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 32737 / July 19, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3883 / July 19, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-18071 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                             AND CEASE-AND-DESIST PROCEEDINGS, 
In the Matter of                             PURSUANT TO  SECTION S 4C AND 15(b) OF 
                                             THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
      ENVISO CAPITAL, LLC,                   1934, SECTIONS 203(e), 203(f) , AND 203(k) 
      RYAN BOWERS,  and                      OF THE INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 
      JEFFREY LaBERGE,  CPA                  1940, SECTION 9(b) OF THE INVESTMENT 
                                             COMPANY ACT OF 1940 , AND RULE 102(e) 
Respondent s.                                 OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
                                                        
                                             
                                                                          
                                               
 
                                          I. 
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, and hereby are, 
instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 
(“Advisers Act”) against Enviso Capital, LLC (“Enviso Capital”); Section 15(b) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”), Sections 203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, and 
Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Ryan 
                                1
Bowers (“Bowers”); and Sections 4C and 15(b) of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(f) and 203(k) 
                                                  
1
      Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
                                          1 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                                                                   2
of the Advisers Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, and Rule 102(e)(1)(iii)             of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice against Jeffrey LaBerge (“LaBerge,” and collectively with Enviso 
Capital and Bowers, “Respondents”). 
                                                        
                                                     II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the 
findings herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of 
these proceedings, which are admitted, and except as provided herein in Section V as to 
Respondents Bowers and LaBerge, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting 
Administrative and Cease-and-Desist Proceedings, Pursuant to Sections 4C and 15(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Sections 203(e), 203(f), and 203(k) of the Investment Advisers 
Act of 1940, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions and 
Cease-and-Desist Orders (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                     III. 
 
                                                                                           3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds  that: 
 
                                                 Summary 
 
        From 2012 through 2014 (the “Relevant Period”), Enviso Capital and two of its principals, 
Bowers and LaBerge, materially overstated the value of two private funds advised by Enviso 
Capital in financial statements sent to fund investors.  In one case, Enviso Capital overvalued the 
fund’s primary asset – private company Bluefin Renewable Energy, LLC (“Bluefin”), by failing to 

                                                                                                                                                             
 
                 The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any person the 
                 privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that person is found . . .  
                 to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
                 securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
                  
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
                 The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
                 practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . .  to have willfully violated, or willfully aided 
                 and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or the rules and 
                 regulations thereunder. 
                  
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents’ Offers of Settlement and are not binding on any 
other person or entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 

                                                      2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

use reasonable assumptions regarding projected revenues.  In the other, Enviso Capital failed to 
properly value a loan despite the fact that it was probable that the full outstanding amount would 
never be collected.  In addition, due to the problems with the Bluefin valuation and the failure to 
properly value a loan from one of the private funds to the other, the funds’ financial statements 
were not prepared in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), 
which resulted in Enviso Capital violating the custody rule.  Moreover, Enviso Capital made 
several misrepresentations regarding Bluefin’s progress toward developing a renewable energy 
project in management discussion and analyses (“MD&As”) sent to fund investors.  LaBerge, a 
Principal of Enviso Capital, had a primary role in formulating the valuations and disclosures, 
which were then approved by Bowers,Enviso Capital’s Managing Principal.  Enviso Capital also 
falsely disclaimed having custody of client assets in Form ADV filings that Bowers executed.  
Finally, Bowers failed to timely conduct annual reviews of Enviso Capital’s compliance program. 
 
                                         Respondents 
 
       1.     Enviso Capital, LLC is a California limited liability company organized on 
January 1, 2006, and headquartered in San Diego, California.  It registered with the Commission as 
an investment adviser on October 5, 2006, and had assets under management of $144 million as of 
November 14, 2016.  In the fourth quarter of 2016, Enviso Capital transitioned management of its 
separately managed account business to an unaffiliated investment adviser and, on December 22, 
2016, Enviso Capital withdrew its registration as an investment adviser with the Commission 
because it no longer met eligibility requirements based on assets under management.  Enviso 
Capital currently files certain reports as an exempt reporting adviser under California law on Form 
ADV.  Enviso, LLC, a private company, wholly-owns Enviso Capital.  In addition to managing 
separate accounts, during the Relevant Period Enviso Capital served as the investment adviser to 
three private funds, including two relevant here: the Heritage Opportunity Fund, LLC (“HOF”) and 
the Heritage Dividend Fund, LLC (“HDF”).  Enviso Equity, LLC, another wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Enviso, LLC, served as the managing member of the private funds.  Enviso Capital 
assesses fees based on assets under management, and, depending on the managed fund, 
performance-based fees or overhead fees.   
        
       2.     Ryan Bowers, age 42, is a resident of San Diego, California.  Bowers has served as 
Enviso Capital’s Managing Principal and Chief Compliance Officer since its inception; during the 
Relevant Period, his responsibilities included portfolio management for Enviso Capital’s separately 
managed account business and managed private funds.  He previously held Series 7 and 66 
licenses and holds a CFP designation.  During the Relevant Period, Bowers owned 55% of Enviso, 
LLC, and served as a director of Bluefin.  From 2009 through 2013, Bowers was a registered 
representative associated with WFG Investments, Inc. (“WFG”), which was then a dually 
registered broker-dealer and investment adviser.  On September 10, 2015, without admitting the 
charges against him, Bowers entered into a settlement with FINRA for violating FINRA Rule 
2010.  Bowers agreed to a $25,000 penalty and a five-month suspension from association with any 
FINRA member firm in all capacities. 
        

                                                3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       3.     Jeffrey LaBerge, age 37, is a resident of San Diego, California.  LaBerge has 
served as Enviso Capital’s Principal since 2007.  During the Relevant Period, his responsibilities 
included portfolio management for Enviso Capital’s separately managed account business and 
managed private funds, as well as formulating valuations.  He holds CFA and CFP designations, 
held Series 7 and 66 licenses, and is a licensed CPA in California.  LaBerge owns approximately 
4% of Enviso, LLC and was a registered representative associated with WFG from 2009 through 
2013.  From 2010 to 2015, LaBerge also served as a director of Bluefin.   
 
                                    Other Relevant Entities 
 
       4.     Heritage Opportunity Fund, LLC (“HOF”), a Delaware limited liability 
company, was organized on April 5, 2007.  Enviso Capital served as the investment adviser to 
HOF, a private fund, that it sold to its individual clients from 2007 to 2011 with an investment 
objective of long-term capital appreciation.  HOF raised a total of $10 million of in-kind securities 
and cash contributions from approximately 73 investors.  HOF became insolvent in 2014 and 
dissolved in 2015. 
        
       5.     Heritage Dividend Fund, LLC (“HDF”), a Delaware limited liability company, 
was organized on December 17, 2007.  Enviso Capital served as the investment adviser to HDF, a 
private fund, that it sold to its individual clients primarily from 2008 through 2010 with an 
investment objective of acquiring dividend-oriented and high-income generating investments, 
raising a total of $15 million from approximately 98 investors.  Enviso Capital is in the process of 
winding down HDF. 
        
       6.     Bluefin Renewable Energy, LLC (“Bluefin”), a private California limited liability 
company, was organized on May 10, 2013 to succeed to the business of BioGold Fuels 
Corporation (collectively referred to herein as “Bluefin”), previously a public renewable energy 
company.  HOF and HDF each owned interests in Bluefin until December 2014 when Bluefin was 
written down to zero. 
 
                                          Background 
 
                    Bluefin’s Tecate Project and HDF’s Line of Credit Asset 
        
       7.     HOF and HDF each held interests in Bluefin.  Bluefin accounted for the majority of 
HOF’s total assets during the relevant period – between 51% and 88% – but was a smaller portion 
of HDF’s holdings – between 11% and 17% of HDF’s total assets.  Both Bowers and LaBerge 
took an active role in Bluefin’s business and served as board members.  Between 2011 and 2014, 
Bluefin had only one asset: a renewable energy project under development in Tecate, Mexico (the 
“Tecate Project”).  Bluefin never reached certain milestones necessary to building the Tecate 
Project, such as obtaining financing or potential customers.   
        
       8.     In addition to its ownership interest in Bluefin, HDF also issued a loan to HOF 
through a line of credit that was secured by HOF’s assets, which were primarily HOF’s holdings in 

                                                4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Bluefin.  The line of credit was issued in September 2008 for $1,500,000 with a maturity date of 
December 31, 2010.  The maximum loan amount was increased three times and the maturity date 
was extended four times.  As of December 31, 2014, HOF owed HDF $6,092,962 in principal and 
accrued interest on the loan.  HOF never made, and did not have liquid assets to make, any 
payments on the loan.   
        
       9.      Enviso Capital, as investment adviser to HOF and HDF, determined Bluefin’s 
valuation for purposes of (i) HOF’s and HDF’s financial statements, which were sent to fund 
investors, and (ii) calculating its investment advisory fee, which was based on the net value of 
assets under management.  LaBerge calculated the valuations, and Bowers approved them.  
Notwithstanding the fact that the Tecate Project had not yet started construction, obtained 
financing or potential customers, the Respondents represented to fund investors in financial 
statements for the years ending December 31, 2011 through December 31, 2013, that Bluefin was 
worth between $10.8 and $12.7 million.  As of December 31, 2014, the Bluefin investment was 
written down to zero.  Similarly, despite HOF’s inability to make payments on HDF’s outstanding 
loan, from 2011 through December 31, 2014, Respondents never wrote down the value of the loan.  
In 2015, Enviso Capital wrote off the entire value of the HDF loan as uncollectible while preparing 
the 2014 financial statements.   
        
       10.    During the Relevant Period, Enviso Capital elected to accrue but not collect any 
investment advisory fees from HOF or HDF.  Subsequently, Enviso Capital wrote off all related 
accrued investment advisory fees.    
 
                       Bluefin Valuations Used Unreasonable Assumptions 
    
       11.    Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards Codification Topic 
820 (“ASC 820”) defines “fair value” and establishes a framework for measuring fair value in 
accordance with GAAP.  ASC 820-10-35-9A defines fair value as the price that would be received 
to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction in the principal (or most 
advantageous) market at the measurement date under current market conditions (that is, an exit 
price) regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another valuation 
technique.  ASC 820-10-05-1B emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement, not an 
entity-specific measurement, and should be determined based on the assumptions market 
participants would use in pricing the asset.  
        
       12.    ASC 820-10-55-3A through G outline three broad approaches to measure fair value 
– the market approach, income approach, and cost approach – and state that valuation techniques 
consistent with these three approaches shall be used to measure fair value.  Under the market 
approach, prices and other relevant information generated by market transactions involving 
identical or comparable assets or liabilities are used to measure fair value.  The income approach 
utilizes valuation techniques to obtain the present value of future cash flows.  Lastly, the cost 
approach is based on the amount that currently would be required to replace the assets in service 
(i.e., current replacement cost).  
        

                                                5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       13.    Under each fund’s valuation policy, interests in fund portfolio companies without 
readily available market quotations would be valued in good faith by the investment adviser.  Both 
funds issued audited financial statements describing that “Management is responsible for the 
preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with accounting 
principles generally accepted in the United States of America . . . .”  From 2011 through 2013, the 
funds’ audited financial statements disclosed that the valuation of certain securities may be based 
on discounted cash flows from projected income and Bluefin was specifically identified as valued 
under this approach.   
 
       14.    The discounted cash flow method, which Enviso Capital applied to value Bluefin 
from 2011 through 2013, is a recognized valuation technique under the income approach to value 
an investment.  The method entails projecting expected future economic benefits (net cash flow) 
and discounting each expected benefit back to present value at an appropriate risk adjusted rate of 
return.  In using the discounted cash flow methodology – which at its core entails projecting cash 
flow – reasonable assumptions and estimations of future cash flows must be used. 
        
       15.     Enviso Capital did not use reasonable assumptions or estimations of future cash 
flows in calculating Bluefin’s valuation for years ending 2011 through 2013.  The table below 
illustrates some of the assumptions used and the resulting valuations. 
 
   Valuation    Year 1 Net   Year 5 Net   Energy      Operational Date   Discount      Bluefin 
     Period       Income      Income       Sold                            Rate       Valuation 
   12/31/2011   $3,880,000   $2,334,000   68 MWs          Mid-2014         30%       $10,835,116 
   12/31/2012    $713,000   $2,776,000    61 MWs      Early to Mid-2015    22.5%     $13,901,936 
   12/31/2013    -$25,000   $2,946,500    65 MWs      Early to Mid-2016    25%       $12,738,260 
 
       16.    Three primary facts made Enviso Capital’s assumptions unreasonable: (1) as 
opposed to being in an operational state, no construction ever commenced for the Tecate Project, 
(2) neither equity nor debt financing had been obtained to construct the more than $200 million 
project, and (3) no contracts had been entered into with any potential purchasers of energy in order 
to obtain revenue from the project.   
        
       17.    While Bluefin tried to obtain financing and enter into contracts for the sale of 
energy, its efforts were ultimately unsuccessful.  Despite this fact, LaBerge produced multiple 
valuations that unreasonably assumed significant amounts of energy would be sold within 24 to 30 
months.  Bowers then approved the valuations.  At least as early as January 2012, Bowers and 
LaBerge were aware that the Commission’s examination staff had concerns about the assumptions 
underlying the discounted cash flow method used to value Bluefin.  Specifically, the Commission’s 
staff sent Bowers, as CEO of Enviso Capital, a deficiency letter on January 19, 2012 regarding the 
results of an investment adviser examination.  In the letter, the examination staff expressed 
concerns regarding certain revenue assumptions underlying the discounted cash flow method to 

                                                 6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

value two alternative energy plants that preceded the Tecate Project.  The letter further noted that 
                                                                                      4
unreasonable assumptions regarding revenue projections may have been used in 2010.        
        
       18.      Bluefin’s valuation had a material impact on HOF’s reported net asset value, 
comprising 81%, 155%, and 247% of its net assets (51%, 78%, and 88% of total assets) from 2011 
to 2013, respectively.  Bluefin was a comparatively smaller holding for HDF, comprising 
approximately 11%, 14%, and 17% of its net (and total) assets.  The unreasonable assumptions 
used by Respondents resulted in valuations inconsistent with ASC 820 and caused large 
overstatements in HOF’s value and, to a lesser extent, HDF’s value.  In addition, Bluefin’s 
valuation did not reflect the current sales or exit prices of the investment at the times of the 
valuations.  These valuations were included in the funds’ audited financial statements and, in some 
cases, in the MD&As that were sent to fund investors who were also separate clients of Enviso 
Capital.  Because Bluefin’s valuations were not conducted consistent with the applicable 
accounting standards, the HOF financial statements were not prepared in accordance with GAAP. 
        
                         Failure to Properly Value HDF’s Loans to HOF 
        
       19.    Accounting Standards Codification Topic 946-310-45-1 (“ASC 946”) provides that 
receivables, including receivables from related parties shall be listed at net realizable value.  HDF 
was an investment company as defined by ASC 946, and therefore should have carried its loan to 
HOF at net realizable value. 
        
       20.    HDF’s loan to HOF, which was secured by HOF’s assets, was one of HDF’s largest 
assets.  Specifically, the loan comprised 28%, 36%, and 41% of HDF’s net assets (25%, 35%, and 
40% of total assets) from 2011 to 2013.  When combined with HDF’s holdings in Bluefin, the two 
assets comprised 39%, 50%, and 58% of HDF’s net assets.   
        
       21.    During the Relevant Period, HOF’s financial position was sufficiently precarious 
that it could not satisfy its management fee liabilities to Enviso Capital, its loan liabilities to HDF, 
or HOF investor redemption requests.  Several extensions to the line of credit were granted due to 
the fact that HOF would not be able to repay the loan in accordance with the terms on the 
agreements between the funds on the date it was due.  Yet, despite the numerous draws on the line 
of credit increasing the amounts due to HDF, and the several extensions granted, Enviso Capital 
never recognized any impairments on the loan until it deemed the loan worthless subsequent to 
December 31, 2014.  LaBerge and Bowers were responsible for accounting for HDF’s loan.  Given 
the circumstances, it was probable that HDF would be unable to collect the monies owed pursuant 
to the loan and, accordingly, Enviso Capital should have reduced its carrying amount of the loan to 
its net realizable value.  The stated value of the HDF loan was inconsistent with ASC 946, and 
overstated HDF’s net asset value, which was disclosed in the 2011 through 2013 annual audited 
financial statements sent to fund investors, who were also separate clients of Enviso Capital.  

                                                 
4
       Although Respondents continued to value Bluefin on their own using the discounted cash flow method, the 
auditor chose to engage a valuation specialist. 

                                                 7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

Because  the HDF loan was recorded in a manner inconsistent with the applicable accounting 
standards, the HDF financial statements were not prepared in accordance with GAAP.   
                                                  
                  Misrepresentations in Management Discussion and Analyses 
        
       22.    Enviso Capital sent MD&As and other communications to fund investors from 
2012 to 2014.  The MD&As for fiscal years ended 2011 and 2012 misrepresented the nature of 
Bluefin’s relationship with a Mexican company as a partnership, even though the contractual 
relationship that existed at the time was not a legal partnership.  This relationship was important 
because the Mexican company had acquired land and certain permits upon which the Tecate 
Project was based.  Without an actual legal partnership, Bluefin had no legal claim to these assets.  
Yet, Enviso Capital touted the Mexican company’s land and permits when describing Bluefin’s 
achievements.  
        
       23.    Enviso Capital also misrepresented Bluefin’s progress in securing debt financing 
for the Tecate Project.  In 2013, Enviso Capital disclosed that financing would be secured in the 
next few quarters and that Bluefin anticipated beginning construction soon thereafter.  In 2014, 
Enviso Capital disclosed that Bluefin had obtained a letter of intent from a large development bank 
to provide debt financing, which was not true.  However, the Tecate Project was never near 
securing debt or equity financing much less securing the funding within the time represented.  
Bowers and LaBerge were responsible for the statements contained in the MD&As, and were both 
aware of the state of Bluefin’s business. 
        
                     Failures to Timely Perform Annual Compliance Reviews  
        
       24.    Enviso Capital failed to timely perform annual reviews of its compliance program 
for calendar years 2011 and 2013.  Enviso Capital’s compliance policies tasked Bowers as 
responsible for ensuring that the annual reviews were timely conducted.  
                                                  
                                     Custody Rule Violations 
                                                  
       25.    In 2012 and 2013, Enviso Capital was a registered investment adviser subject to the 
custody rule promulgated under Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and set forth as Rule 206(4)-2 
thereunder.  Paragraph (a)(4) of the custody rule requires investment advisers with custody of 
client funds or securities to submit to surprise examinations conducted by an independent public 
accountant at least once every calendar year.  Enviso Capital did not comply with this requirement 
in 2012 or 2013, because it intended to rely on paragraph (b)(4) of the custody rule which provides 
an exception from the surprise examination requirement for pooled investment vehicles that, 
among other things, distribute to their investors annual audited financial statements prepared in 
accordance with GAAP.  Because Enviso Capital distributed to HOF and HDF investors financial 
statements that were not prepared in accordance with GAAP, this exception did not apply.      
        
        
        

                                                8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                    Enviso Capital’s Forms ADV 
 
       26.    Enviso Capital disclosed in Forms ADV filed with the Commission that it did not 
have custody of client funds or securities.  This statement was false because a related party, Enviso 
Equity, LLC, acted as the managing member of HOF and HDF.  Item 9 of Enviso Capital’s Forms 
ADV, Part 1 filed on February 1, 2010, March 17, 2010, March 29, 2011, June 1, 2011, June 23, 
2011, March 30, 2012, May 16, 2012, and March 19, 2013, each included this false disclosure.  
Bowers reviewed and executed each of the Forms ADV.   
 
                                             Violations 
        
                                                                                   5
       27.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully      v iolated Section 
206( 2) of the Advisers Act, which prohibits fraudulent conduct by an investment adviser.    
        
       28.     As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated Section 
206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder which makes it unlawful for any 
investment adviser to a pooled investment vehicle to “[m]ake any untrue statement of a material 
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in the light of the 
circumstances under which they were made, not misleading, to any investor or prospective investor 
in the pooled investment vehicle” or “engage in any act, practice, or course of business that is 
fraudulent, deceptive, or manipulative with respect to any investor or prospective investor in the 
pooled investment vehicle.” 
        
       29.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enviso Capital willfully violated, and 
Bowers and LaBerge caused Enviso Capital’s violations of, Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and 
Rule 206(4)-2, the custody rule, promulgated thereunder.  The custody rule imposes specific 
requirements on registered advisers who have custody of client funds and securities.  Enviso 
Capital had custody of client funds and securities within the meaning of the rule.  Among other 
things, the custody rule generally requires that client assets be maintained with a qualified 
custodian, who must provide account statements to the investors at least quarterly, and requires 
client assets to be verified through an annual surprise examination by an independent public 
accountant.  Rule 206(4)-2(b)(4) provides an exception to these requirements with respect to 
certain pooled investment vehicles. This exception, upon which Enviso Capital purported to rely, 
requires audited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP to be distributed to 
investors within 120 days of the end of the vehicle’s fiscal year.  As a result of the conduct 
described above, the financial statements of HOF and HDF for fiscal years 2012 through 2013 
were not prepared in accordance with GAAP. 
        

                                                 
5
       A willful violation of the securities laws means merely “‘that the person charged with the duty knows what 
he is doing.’” Wonsover v. SEC, 205 F.3d 408, 414 (D.C. Cir. 2000) (quoting Hughes v. SEC, 174 F.2d 969, 977 
(D.C. Cir. 1949)). There is no requirement that the actor “‘also be aware that he is violating one of the Rules or 
Acts.’” Id. (quoting Gearhart & Otis, Inc. v. SEC, 348 F.2d 798, 803 (D.C. Cir. 1965)). 

                                                  9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       30.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enviso Capital willfully violated, and 
Bowers caused its violation of, Section 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-7 thereunder 
which require, among other things, that a registered investment adviser review, no less frequently 
than annually, the adequacy of the policies and procedures. 
        
       31.    As a result of the conduct described above, Enviso Capital and Bowers willfully 
violated Section 207 of the Advisers Act, which makes it “unlawful for any person willfully to 
make any untrue statement of a material fact in any registration application or report filed with 
the Commission . . . or willfully to omit to state in any such application or report any material 
fact which is required to be stated therein.” 
                                            Findings 
        
       32.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that LaBerge (a) willfully violated 
Sections 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 thereunder.   
 
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanctions agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, pursuant to Sections 4C and 15(b)(6) of the Exchange Act, Sections 203(e), 
203(f) and 203(k) of the Advisers Act, Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act, and Rule 
102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, it is hereby ORDERED that: 
 
       A.     Respondents Enviso Capital and Bowers cease and desist from committing or 
causing any violations and any future violations of Sections 206(2), 206(4), and 207 of the Advisers 
Act and Rules 206(4)-2, 206(4)-7, and 206(4)-8 promulgated thereunder.   
        
       B.     Respondent Enviso Capital is censured. 
        
       C.     Respondent LaBerge cease and desist from committing or causing any violations 
and any future violations of Sections 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rules 206(4)-2 and 
206(4)-8 promulgated thereunder.   
        
       D.     Respondents Bowers and LaBerge shall be, and hereby are: 
        
                      barred from association with any broker, dealer, investment adviser, 
                      municipal securities dealer, municipal advisor, transfer agent, or nationally 
                      recognized statistical rating organization; and  
                       
                      prohibited from serving or acting as an employee, officer, director, member 
                      of an advisory board, investment adviser or depositor of, or principal 
                      underwriter for, a registered investment company or affiliated person of 
                      such investment adviser, depositor, or principal underwriter;  

                                                10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

        
               with the right to reapply for reentry after two (2) years to the appropriate self- 
               regulatory organization, or if there is none, to the Commission. 
        
       E.     Any reapplication for association by Respondents Bowers or LaBerge will be 
subject to the applicable laws and regulations governing the reentry process, and reentry may be 
conditioned upon a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the satisfaction of any or all of 
the following: (a) any disgorgement ordered against Respondents Bowers or LaBerge, whether or 
not the Commission has fully or partially waived payment of such disgorgement; (b) any 
arbitration award related to the conduct that served as the basis for the Commission order; (c) any 
self-regulatory organization arbitration award to a customer, whether or not related to the conduct 
served as the basis for the Commission order; and (d) any restitution order by a self-regulatory 
organization, whether or not related to the conduct served as the basis for the Commission order. 
        
       F.     Respondent LaBerge is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as an accountant.   
        
       G.     After two (2) years from the date of this order, Respondent LaBerge may request 
that the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: Office of 
the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
        
               1.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                      review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                      the Commission (other than as a member of an audit committee, as that 
                      term is defined in Section 3(a)(58) of the Exchange Act).  Such an 
                      application must satisfy the Commission that Respondent LaBerge’s work 
                      in his practice before the Commission as an accountant will be reviewed 
                      either by the independent audit committee of the public company for 
                      which he works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he 
                      practices before the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                
               2.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or review, 
                      of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with the 
                      Commission as a member of an audit committee, as that term is defined in 
                      Section 3(a)(58) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Such an 
                      application will be considered on a facts and circumstances basis with 
                      respect to such membership, and the applicant’s burden of demonstrating 
                      good cause for reinstatement will be particularly high given the role of the 
                      audit committee in financial and accounting matters; and/or 
 
               3.     an independent accountant.   
 
               Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
                

                                                11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

                      (a)    Respondent LaBerge, or the public accounting firm with which he 
                      is associated, is registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
                      Board (“Board”) in accordance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and 
                      such registration continues to be effective; 
                       
                      (b)    Respondent LaBerge, or the registered public accounting firm with 
                      which he is associated, has been inspected by the Board and that 
                      inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in the 
                      respondent’s or the firm’s quality control system that would indicate that 
                      the Respondent LaBerge will not receive appropriate supervision; 

                      (c)    Respondent LaBerge has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                      Board, and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                      imposed by the Board (other than reinstatement by the Commission); and 
                       
                      (d)    Respondent LaBerge acknowledges his responsibility, as long as 
                      he appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                      accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and the 
                      Board, including, but not limited to, all requirements relating to 
                      registration, inspections, concurring partner reviews and quality control 
                      standards.   
               
       H.     The Commission will consider an application by Respondent LaBerge to resume 
appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is current and 
he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards of accountancy.  
However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the Commission, the Commission 
will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review may include 
consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters relating to 
Respondent LaBerge’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear or 
practice before the Commission as an accountant.  Whether an application demonstrates good 
cause will be considered on a facts and circumstances basis with due regard for protecting the 
integrity of the Commission’s processes. 
 
       I.      Respondents Enviso Capital, Bowers, and LaBerge shall each, within 30 days of the 
entry of this Order, pay a civil money penalty in the amount of $50,000 to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for transfer to the general fund of the United States Treasury, subject to 
Exchange Act Section 21F(g)(3).  If timely payment is not made, additional interest shall accrue 
pursuant to 31 U.S.C. §3717.   
 
       J.      Payments must be made in one of the following ways:   
 
              (1)     Respondent may transmit payment electronically to the Commission, which 
                      will provide detailed ACH transfer/Fedwire instructions upon request;  
               

                                               12 
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

               (2)    Respondent may make direct payment from a bank account via Pay.gov 
                      through the SEC website at http://www.sec.gov/about/offices/ofm.htm; or  
                
               (3)    Respondent may pay by certified check, bank cashier’s check, or United 
                      States postal money order, made payable to the Securities and Exchange 
                      Commission and hand-delivered or mailed to:  
 
               Enterprise Services Center 
               Accounts Receivable Branch 
               HQ Bldg., Room 181, AMZ-341 
               6500 South MacArthur Boulevard 
               Oklahoma City, OK 73169 
 
       Payments by check or money order must be accompanied by a cover letter identifying the 
Respondent in these proceedings, and the file number of these proceedings; a copy of the cover 
letter and check or money order must be sent to C. Dabney O’Riordan, Co-Chief, Asset 
Management Unit, Division of Enforcement, Securities and Exchange Commission, 444 S. Flower 
        th
Street, 9  Floor, Los Angeles, California 90071.   
 
       K.     Amounts ordered to be paid as civil money penalties pursuant to this Order shall be 
treated as penalties paid to the government for all purposes, including all tax purposes.  To 
preserve the deterrent effect of the civil penalty, Respondents agree that in any Related Investor 
Action, they shall not argue that they are entitled to, nor shall they benefit by, offset or reduction of 
any award of compensatory damages by the amount of any part of Respondents’ payment of a civil 
penalty in this action (“Penalty Offset”).  If the court in any Related Investor Action grants such a 
Penalty Offset, Respondents agree that they shall, within 30 days after entry of a final order 
granting the Penalty Offset, notify the Commission’s counsel in this action and pay the amount of 
the Penalty Offset to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such a payment shall not be 
deemed an additional civil penalty and shall not be deemed to change the amount of the civil 
penalty imposed in this proceeding.  For purposes of this paragraph, a “Related Investor Action” 
means a private damages action brought against Respondents by or on behalf of one or more 
investors based on substantially the same facts as alleged in the Order instituted by the 
Commission in this proceeding. 
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        

                                               13 
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                                V. 

       It is further Ordered that, solely for purposes of exceptions to discharge set forth in Section 
523 of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523, the findings in this Order are true and admitted by 
Respondents Bowers and LaBerge, and further, any debt for disgorgement, prejudgment interest, 
civil penalty or other amounts due by Respondents Bowers or LaBerge under this Order or any 
other judgment, order, consent order, decree or settlement agreement entered in connection with 
this proceeding, is a debt for the violation by Respondents Bowers or LaBerge of the federal 
securities laws or any regulation or order issued under such laws, as set forth in Section 523(a)(19) 
of the Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. §523(a)(19). 

 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                                             Secretary 
 
 
 

                                                14 
 
