---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80749 / May 23, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3870 / May 23, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17996  
 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTING  PUBLIC 
In the Matter of                                   ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDINGS               , 
                                                   PURSUANT TO  SECTION  4C OF THE 
       DANIEL MILLMANN,  CPA,                      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                   AND RULE 102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S 
Respondent.                                       
                                                   
                                                                    
 
 
                                                     
                                                 

                                               I. 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate that public 
administrative  proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted  against Daniel Millmann  (“Millmann”  or 
                                     1
“Respondent”) pursuant to Section 4C   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) 
                                                             2
and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice. 

                                               
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that: 
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
               to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
               any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
               violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
               securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 

2
       Rule  102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                 II. 

       In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, and without admitting  or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over Respondent and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondent consents to the entry of this Order Instituting  Public 
Administrative  Proceedings, Pursuant to Section 4C of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice, Making Findings,  and Imposing Remedial 
Sanctions (“Order”), as set forth below. 
 
                                                 III. 

                                                                                   3
       On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds        that  
 
                                              Summary 

       1.      This matter involves improper professional conduct by RSM US LLP (“RSM”) 
engagement partner Millmann,  while performing the 2011 audit of Madison Capital Energy 
Income Fund I LP (“Fund I”), a fund formed for the general purpose of acquiring  oil and gas 
royalty interests to generate a return for its investors.  During the course of the Fund I engagement, 
Millmann  repeatedly violated professional standards, including  by failing  to conduct the 2011 
Fund I audit (hereinafter “Fund I audit”) in conformity with Generally Accepted Auditing 
Standards (“GAAS”). 
        
       2.      For example, Millmann  failed to adequately plan and assess the risk of the Fund I 
audit before audit field work commenced.  Also, Millmann,  who had never worked on an oil and 
gas audit, was not approved to work on the Fund I audit before the work began.  In addition,  the 
Fund I financial statements failed to separately report the fair value of the investment in each oil 
and gas royalty interest held by Fund I, as required by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
(“GAAP”).  Lisa Hanmer (“Hanmer”), RSM engagement manager for the Fund I audit, knew that 
adequate procedures had not been performed in auditing  the fair value of the investment in the 
underlying  royalty interests and took steps to conceal this fact from RSM personnel, including 
Millmann.   Millmann  also failed to complete the RSM required engagement report release 
workpaper, which, in relevant part, mandated that Millmann  satisfy himself that all review 
comments for the audit were satisfactorily resolved before the audit report was released.  Finally, 

                                                                                                                                                        
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
               appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 

3
       The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondent’s Offer and are not binding on any other person or 
entity in this or any other proceeding. 
 

                                                  2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
Millmann  also neglected to review many of the audit workpapers, and in essence improperly 
delegated most of his engagement partner responsibilities  to an engagement manager, Hanmer. 

                                          Respondent 

       3.      Daniel Millmann (“Millmann”), age 54, currently resides in Madison, Wisconsin 
and is a certified public accountant licensed to practice in Wisconsin.  Millmann  has worked at 
RSM since 1990 and became a partner in 2005.  Millmann  served as the RSM engagement partner 
for the Fund I audit. 
        
                                    Other Relevant Parties 

       4.      RSM US LLP, a limited  liability  partnership with its headquarters in Chicago, 
Illinois,  is a public  accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (“PCAOB”).  Founded in 1926, RSM has about 80 offices in the United States with annual 
revenue totaling  approximately $1.4 billion.   Fund I engaged RSM, through its Madison, 
Wisconsin office, to “perform an audit of [Fund I’s] statement of net assets, including  the 
schedules of investments as of December 31, 2011 and a review of the related statements of 
operations, changes in partners’ capital and cash flows for the year then ended . . . in accordance 
with auditing  standards generally accepted in the United States of America” in May 2012. 
        
       5.      Lisa Hanmer, age 44, currently resides in Oregon, Wisconsin and is a certified 
public accountant licensed to practice in Wisconsin.  Hanmer began working at RSM in 1996, 
became a partner in 2013, and resigned from the firm, effective March 31, 2015.  Hanmer served 
as the RSM manager for the Fund I audit and held the title of director at the time. 
        
       6.      Derik J. Todd (“Todd”), age 51, currently resides in Madison, Wisconsin.  Since 
2007, Todd has served as the President of Madison Capital Investments LLC (“MCI”).  Todd has 
organized private placements of equity interests in oil and gas limited  partnerships through MCI 
and other entities.  Todd, on behalf of Fund I, retained RSM to perform the Fund I audit and served 
as RSM’s primary contact with Fund I. 

       7.      Madison Capital Investments LLC (“MCI”) is a Wisconsin limited  liability 
company, controlled  by Todd, based in Madison, Wisconsin.  MCI organized a number of private 
placements of equity interests in oil and gas limited  partnerships since 2009, including  Fund I.  
These private placements were marketed to accredited investors under Regulation D Rule 506 
through separate broker-dealers and investment advisers. 

       8.      Madison Capital Energy Income Fund I LP (“Fund I”) is a Delaware limited 
partnership, controlled  by Todd, based in Madison, Wisconsin.  Fund I was formed for the general 
purpose of acquiring oil and gas royalty interests to generate a return for its investors.  Fund I 
raised almost $3 million  from approximately  50 investors. 

                               

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
                                            Background 

               Fund I Audit 
 
       9.      MCI pitched its funds to broker-dealers and investments advisers, and they in turn 
introduced these funds to prospective investors.  These broker-dealers and investment advisers 
generally required certain information  before they agreed to place these funds on their platforms, 
including  audited financial statements.  Thus, MCI engaged RSM on May 16, 2012 to perform an 
audit of Fund I’s statement of net assets as of December 31, 2011 and a review of the related 
statements of operations, changes in partners’ capital and cash flows for the year then ended (the 
               4
“audit report”).   RSM  issued its final audit report to Fund I on May 30, 2012.  This report 
contained an unqualified  opinion  on Fund I’s statement of net assets and a review conclusion, 
made in accordance with AICPA standards, on the other financial statements issued by Fund I. 
        
       10.    In the Fund I audit report, RSM opined that the Fund I statement of net assets 
“presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial position  of [Fund I] as of December 31, 2011, 
in conformity with accounting principles  generally accepted in the United States of America.” 
        
       11.    The Fund I audit report was subsequently distributed by MCI to broker-dealers and 
investment advisers.  These broker-dealers and investment advisers reviewed the Fund I audit 
report in connection with their due diligence  review for MCI’s later funds and placed MCI’s later 
funds on their investment platforms with the impression that RSM properly and adequately audited 
Fund I’s statement of net assets.  RSM generally understood how MCI intended to utilize  the final 
Fund I audit report.  Fund I’s only material assets were interests in oil and gas royalty properties.  
As such, auditing  the value of those assets was the primary purpose for MCI retaining  RSM to 
conduct the Fund I statement of net assets audit. 
 
       12.    Hanmer functioned in the role of engagement manager for the Fund I audit and 
performed the most work on the audit, including  performing or overseeing the field work and 
testing for the audit (including  its documentation in the workpapers) and drafting the Fund I audit 
report.  At the time of the Fund I audit, Hanmer was a director at RSM whose primary experience 
was in auditing privately-held  manufacturing companies.  Fund I was the first oil and gas fund she 
had audited in her career. 
        
       13.    Millmann  was the engagement partner for the Fund I audit.  At the time of the Fund 
I audit, Millmann’s  primary experience was in auditing privately-held  manufacturing companies 
and professional service organizations.  Millmann  had never worked on an oil and gas fund prior to 
the Fund I audit. 
 

                                               
4
       This Order references the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“AICPA”) standards in 
effect at the time of the Fund I audit.  These standards are encompassed in GAAS. 

                                                  4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
       14.    The Fund I audit fell under the auspices of RSM’s financial services group, which 
specializes in audits of broker-dealers, futures commodities  merchants, non-registered proprietary 
trading firms, business development companies, commodity  pools, hedge funds, mutual funds, 
small business investment company funds, registered investment advisers, and private equity funds 
(hereinafter “Financial  Services Practice”).  At the time of the Fund I audit, Millmann  and Hanmer 
were not on RSM’s preapproved list for Financial Services Practice audits.  This list identifies 
competent individuals  to perform audits for the Financial Services Practice, the purpose of which is 
to provide reasonable assurance that such audits are performed according to firm and professional 
standards.  Because Millmann and Hanmer were not on the preapproved list for Financial Services 
Practice audits, the Regional Professional Practices Officer (“RPPO”) for the RSM Great Lakes 
Region was required, according to RSM policy,  to approve the staffing of Millmann  and Hanmer 
on the engagement, which the RPPO ultimately did,  but only after audit field work had been 
substantially  completed. 
        
               Relevant RSM Quality Control Policies and Procedures 
 
       15.    All RSM partners and other professionals are required to adhere to all applicable 
provisions  of the AICPA Code of Professional Conduct, as well as applicable ethics requirements 
of the PCAOB and state boards of accountancy. 
        
       16.    RSM’s client acceptance and continuation policies and procedures require the 
engagement partner to carefully evaluate the prospective client prior to acceptance by: (i) 
evaluating the integrity  and competence of top management and majority owners; (ii) evaluating 
the prospective client’s financial condition;  (iii) reviewing  RSM’s independence requirements to 
determine compliance with respect to the prospective client; (iv) ensuring that qualified 
professional staff and other functional and industry specialists are available; and (v) 
communicating  directly with the predecessor auditor.  Acceptance of all prospective clients must 
be approved by the regional assurance leader or his or her designee. 

       17.    RSM uses the RSM Risk Assessment Model (“MRAM”), an internally  developed 
electronic tool that assists engagement teams in performing consistent and comprehensive 
evaluations of risk.  In arriving at an engagement risk assessment, the MRAM considers several 
risk-rating factors, such as industry, financial condition,  governance, management, control 
environment,  size, complexity,  and international  reach.  In addition to providing  for the approval of 
engagement acceptance or continuance and engagement staffing, the MRAM identifies potential 
risks of material misstatement, the need for the involvement  of subject matter experts, matters 
requiring consultation,  and other engagement risks, which allows RSM to plan and perform more 
effective and efficient risk-based audits.  RSM’s policies in this area are designed to provide 
reasonable assurance that RSM will undertake or continue relationships  and engagements only 
where RSM: (i) has considered the integrity  of the client and the risks associated with providing 
professional services under the circumstances; (ii) is competent to perform the engagement and has 
the capabilities and resources to do so; (iii)  can comply with the applicable legal and ethical 
requirements; and (iv) can reach an understanding with the client regarding the nature, scope, and 
limitations  of the services to be performed. 

                                                 5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
       18.    RSM designed its policies  and procedures to provide reasonable assurance that 
RSM has sufficient professional personnel with the capabilities,  competence, and commitment  to 
ethical principles necessary to perform RSM’s engagements in accordance with professional 
standards and regulatory and legal requirements and to enable RSM to issue reports that are 
appropriate under the circumstances.  RSM’s National Office of Risk Management (“NORM”), in 
consultation with the Regional Professional Practice Offices, approves a list of assurance partners, 
directors, and other professionals who have designations within RSM’s quality control system.  
This list identifies individuals  by industry and engagement risk rating who are authorized to serve 
as engagement partners and managers, engagement quality  reviewers, industry specialists, 
independent report reviewers, SEC compliance reviewers, and subject matter experts.  RSM 
assigns an individual  to a specific engagement after considering the professional competence and 
industry experience of the individual,  together with the degree of knowledge,  skills,  and abilities 
required under the circumstances.  RSM’s RPPO has the ability  to approve RSM staff, who are not 
on the preapproved list, for a given audit. 

       19.    To provide reasonable assurance that engagements are consistently performed 
properly, RSM develops, maintains, and provides personnel with electronic manuals, software 
tools, and subject matter guidance materials, which address: (i) audit methodology,  (ii) engagement 
supervision,  (iii)  appropriate documentation of work performed, and (iv) identifying  matters for 
consultation or consideration by more experienced professionals.  RSM’s audit methodology 
dictates that the engagement team plan the audit work so that an effective audit is performed, 
designing  procedures that are responsive to the risks of material misstatement identified in the 
MRAM. 

       20.    RSM has also implemented  a Quality Control Inquiry Committee (“QCIC”), which 
is charged with reviewing engagements selected based on certain triggering  events such as 
engagements identified in PCAOB or internal inspections.   

                              Withdrawal  of Fund I Audit Report 

       21.    RSM informed the Commission  staff in early 2015 that the Commission  staff’s 
investigation  caused it to conduct its own internal review of the Fund I audit.  In connection with 
this internal review, the RSM QCIC convened on February 7, 2015 and concluded that: Hanmer’s 
conduct on the Fund I audit departed from professional standards and firm policies to a degree that 
warranted a recommendation to separate Hanmer from RSM. 

       22.    Subsequently,  Millmann,  on behalf of RSM, in a February 23, 2015 letter to MCI, 
withdrew its Fund I audit report based on “significant  concerns that certain auditing procedures 
[RSM] considered necessary in the circumstances existing  at the time of the engagement were 
omitted from the audit of the statement of assets, including  Fund I’s schedule of investments, and 
[RSM’s] review of the other financial statements.”  The Fund I audit report was withdrawn after 
Fund I’s offering period closed and after investors had already invested. 

                               

                                                6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
                                     Fund I Audit Failures 

       23.    Millmann  failed to conduct the Fund I audit in conformity with GAAS. 

       24.    Contrary to RSM’s client acceptance and engagement performance policies 
described above, field work for the Fund I audit had begun before (i) RSM’s audit planning 
documents were approved and (ii) RSM had cleared the Fund I engagement through the MRAM.  
As a result, RSM and Millmann  did not appropriately assess the risk for the Fund I engagement 
and effectively plan procedures for the audit that would be responsive to the risks of material 
misstatement identified  in the MRAM, and consequently, the Fund I audit was conducted without 
effective audit procedures that were expected to reduce the audit risk of material misstatement. 

       25.    In addition,  contrary to RSM’s engagement staffing policy described above, 
Millmann  and Hanmer, who were not included  on the preapproved list for Financial Services 
Practice audits, were not approved by the RPPO before they began working on the audit.  
Consequently, RSM had no assurance that competent personnel were staffed on the audit before 
substantive audit procedures were performed. 

       26.    RSM issued an audit report containing an unqualified  opinion  on the Fund I 
statement of net assets; however, the Fund I financial statements, including  the statement of net 
assets, were not in conformity with GAAP.  Specifically,  ASC 946-210-50-6  requires breaking out 
and reporting the value of each individual  fund asset on the schedule of investments that are more 
than 5 percent of total net assets.  Notwithstanding this GAAP disclosure requirement, the final 
Fund I schedule of investments only reported the combined cost and fair values of all of the royalty 
interests purchased by the fund.  It did not report the values of Fund I’s individual  royalty interests.  
Hanmer knew that the Fund I financial statements were not in conformity with GAAP and took 
steps to conceal this fact from RSM personnel, including  Millmann.    

       27.    Millmann  failed to complete the RSM required engagement report release 
workpaper, which, in relevant part, mandated that Millmann  satisfy himself that all review 
comments for the audit were satisfactorily resolved before the audit report was released. 

       28.    Millmann  neglected to review many investment workpapers (including  Fund I’s 
valuation summary report) and did not sign off on the investment audit program, which he was 
required to do as engagement partner for the audit per the firm’s policies.  As a result, Millmann 
was unable to determine if the engagement team’s audit procedures for Fund I’s investments, 
which represented a significant portion of Fund I’s assets, were adequate or even if they were all 
completed.  In short, Millmann  did not fulfill  his supervisory responsibility  for the Fund I audit. 

       29.    The Fund I audit had other significant deficiencies.  For example, the required work 
program for subsequent events was never completed and no tests were performed to determine 
whether there were unrecorded liabilities  that needed to be disclosed at year end. 

                               

                                                 7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
                                  Violations of Professional Standards 

               Failure to exercise due professional care (AU § 230) 

       30.    AU Section 230 requires that an auditor exercise due professional care in the 
performance of an audit and the preparation of an audit report.  AU § 230.01.  This standard 
requires the auditor to plan and perform his work with due professional care.  Id. § 230.02.  Due 
professional care imposes a responsibility  upon each professional within  an independent auditor’s 
organization  to conduct field work and reporting with reasonable care and diligence  and to possess 
the degree of skill  commonly  possessed by other auditors.  Id. §§ 230.02-.05.  Auditors should be 
assigned to tasks and supervised commensurate with their level of knowledge, skill,  and ability  so 
that they can evaluate the audit evidence they are examining.  Id. § 230.06.  Due professional care 
requires the auditor to exercise professional skepticism, which is an attitude that includes a 
questioning  mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  Id. § 230.07. 

       31.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent failed to exercise due 
professional care, as required by AU Section 230, when conducting the Fund I audit. 

               Failure to adequately plan the audit (AU § 311) 

       32.    AICPA standards require that an auditor adequately plan field work for an audit.  
AU § 311.01.  Audit planning  involves developing  an overall audit strategy for the expected 
conduct, organization,  and staffing of the audit.  Id. § 311.02.  Obtaining  an understanding of the 
entity and its environment,  including  its internal control, is an essential part of planning  and 
performing an audit in accordance with GAAS.  Id. § 311.03.  The auditor must plan the audit so 
that it is responsive to the assessment of the risk of material misstatement based on the auditor’s 
understanding of the entity and its environment, including  its internal control.  Id.  The auditor 
must develop an audit plan in which the auditor documents the audit procedures to be used that, 
when performed, are expected to reduce audit risk to an acceptably low level.  Id. § 311.19. 

       33.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent failed to adequately plan 
the Fund I audit within the meaning of AU Section 311. 

               Failure to supervise the engagement team properly (AU § 311) 

       34.    AICPA standards require that audit “assistants,” or firm personnel other than the 
auditor with final responsibility  for the audit, be properly supervised.  AU §§ 311.01, .04.  
Elements of supervision  include instructing assistants, keeping informed of significant  issues 
encountered, reviewing the work performed, and dealing with differences of opinion  among firm 
personnel.  Id. § 311.28.  The extent of supervision appropriate in a given instance depends on 
many factors, including  the complexity  of the subject matter and the qualifications  of persons 
performing the work, including  knowledge of the client’s business and industry.  Id. 

       35.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent did not properly supervise 
the Fund I audit within the meaning of AU Section 311. 

                                                 8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
               Failure to consider audit risk and materiality in conducting the audit (AU § 312) 

       36.    According to AICPA standards, the auditor must consider audit risk and must 
determine a materiality level for the financial statements taken as a whole for the purpose of: (i) 
determining  the extent and nature of risk assessment procedures; (ii) identifying  and assessing the 
risks of material misstatement; (iii)  determining  the nature, timing,  and extent of further audit 
procedures; and (iv) evaluating whether the financial statements taken as a whole are presented 
fairly, in all material respects, in conformity with GAAP.  AU § 312.11.  The auditor should 
perform risk assessment procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement both at the 
financial statement and the relevant assertion levels.  Id. §312.12. 

       37.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent did not properly consider 
audit risk, as required by AU Section 312, when planning  the Fund I audit. 

               Failure to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence (AU § 326) 

       38.    AICPA standards require that: “[t]he auditor must obtain sufficient appropriate 
audit evidence by performing audit procedures to afford reasonable basis for an opinion  regarding 
the financial statements under audit.”  AU § 326.01.  Sufficiency is the measure of the quantity of 
audit evidence, and appropriateness is the measure of the quality  of audit evidence.  Id. § 326.06.  
The quantity of audit evidence needed is affected by the risk of misstatement (the greater the risk, 
the more audit evidence is likely  to be required) and also by the quality of such audit evidence (the 
higher the quality,  the less the audit evidence that may be required).  Id. 

       39.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent did not obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence for the Fund I audit within the meaning of AU Section 326. 

               Failure to ascertain the occurrence of subsequent events (AU § 560) 

       40.    The independent auditor should perform other auditing  procedures with respect to 
the period after the balance-sheet date for the purpose of ascertaining the occurrence of subsequent 
events that may require adjustment or disclosure essential to a fair presentation of the financial 
statements in conformity with GAAP.  AU § 560.12.  These procedures should be performed at or 
near the date of the auditor's report.  Id. 

       41.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondent did not comply with AU 
Section 560. 

                                            Violations 

       42.    Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice provides that the 
Commission  may deny the privilege  of appearing or practicing before the Commission  to any 
person who is found to have engaged in improper professional conduct.  Respondent engaged in 
improper professional conduct as defined in Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B)(2) (i.e., negligent  conduct 
consisting of repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a violation  of applicable 
professional standards, that indicate a lack of competence to practice before the Commission). 

                                                 9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
                                             Findings 
        
       43.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission  finds that Respondent engaged in 
improper professional conduct within the meaning of Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and 
Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice. 
                                                   
                                                IV. 

        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondent’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately,  that: 
 
       A.      Millmann  is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant. 
        
               1.      After two years from the date of this Order, Millmann  may request that the 
       Commission  consider his reinstatement by submitting  an application (attention: Office of the 
       Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the Commission as: 
 
                       a.     a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                              review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed 
                              with the Commission.   Such an application  must satisfy the 
                              Commission  that Millmann’s  work in his practice before the 
                              Commission  will  be reviewed either by the independent audit 
                              committee of the public  company for which he works or in some 
                              other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before the 
                              Commission  in this capacity; and/or 
                        
                       b.     an independent accountant.  Such an application  must satisfy the 
                              Commission  that: 
                        
                              (1) Millmann,  or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                              associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance with the 
                              Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration continues to be 
                              effective; 
                        
                              (2) Millmann,  or the registered public accounting firm with which he 
                              is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that inspection 
                              did not identify any criticisms of or potential defects in his or the 
                              firm’s quality control system that would indicate that Millmann  will 
                              not receive appropriate supervision; 
                               
                              (3) Millmann,  has resolved all disciplinary  issues with the PCAOB, 
                              and has complied with all terms and conditions of any sanctions 
                                                10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
                               imposed by the PCAOB (other than reinstatement by the 
                               Commission); and 
                                
                               (4) Millmann  acknowledges his responsibility,  as long as Millmann 
                               appears or practices before the Commission as an independent 
                               accountant, to comply with all requirements of the Commission and 
                               the PCAOB, including,  but not limited  to, all requirements relating to 
                               registration, inspections, engagement quality review, and quality 
                               control standards. 
 
               2.      The Commission  will consider an application by Millmann  to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission  provided that his CPA license is current and 
       he has resolved all other disciplinary  issues with the applicable boards of accountancy.  
       However, if CPA licensure is dependent on the reinstatement by the Commission,  the 
       Commission  will consider an application on its other merits.  The Commission’s review 
       may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced above, any other matters 
       relating to Millmann’s character, integrity, professional conduct, or qualifications to appear 
       or practice before the Commission. 
        
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                 11 
