---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                               UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                             Before the 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80370/ April 4, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3864/ April 4, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17898 
 
                                                    ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC   
                                                    ADMINISTRATIVE          PROCEEDINGS  
                                                     PURSUANT TO SECTION  4C OF THE 
In the Matter of                                     SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
                                                     AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 
       William Joseph Kouser Jr.,                 COMMISSION’S RULES OF PRACTICE, 
       CPA, and Ryan James                      
       Dougherty, CPA ,                                                             
 
Responden ts. 
 
 
 
 
 
                                                  I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate that public 
administrative proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted against William Joseph Kouser Jr., CPA 
(“Kouser”) and Ryan James Dougherty, CPA (“Dougherty” and with Kouser, the “Respondents”) 
                       1
pursuant to Section 4C   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rule 
                                                     2
102(e)(1)(ii) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:   
 
               The Commission may      censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, 
               to any person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in 
               any way, if that person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications 
               to represent others . . . (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully 
                                                   
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 
                                                   II. 
 
        In anticipation of the institution of these proceedings, Respondents have submitted Offers 
of Settlement (the “Offers”) which the Commission has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission, or to which the Commission is a party, and without admitting or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s jurisdiction over them and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, which are admitted, Respondents consent to the entry of this Order Instituting Public 
Administrative Proceedings Pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, Making Findings, and Imposing Remedial Sanctions (“Order”), 
as set forth below.   
 
                                                  III. 
 
                                                                                      3
        On the basis of this Order and Respondents’ Offers, the Commission finds        that:  
 
A.      SUMMARY 
 
        1.      During 2013-2014, the accounting firm of BBD, LLP (“BBD”) and two individuals 
at the firm, Respondent Kouser and Respondent Dougherty, served as the auditors for an 
investment company called the GL Beyond Income Fund (“The Fund”).  The Fund was managed 
by Daniel Thibeault (“Thibeault”) and his registered investment adviser firm, GL Capital Partners 
LLC (“GL Capital”).  From at least 2013 through late 2014, Thibeault and GL Capital committed a 
fraud on The Fund and its investors by, among other things, misappropriating at least $16 million 
that belonged to The Fund.  Kouser and Dougherty were responsible for The Fund’s fiscal year 
2014 audit, and failed to comply with Public Company Accounting Oversight Board’s 
(“PCAOB”) auditing standards (“PCAOB Standards”) in this audit.  Specifically, the 
Respondents’ violations of the auditing standards stemmed from their failures to: (1) act with due 
professional care and exercise professional skepticism; (2) obtain sufficient appropriate audit 
evidence; and, (3) prepare proper audit documentation during the fiscal year 2014 audit (between 

                                                                                                                                                             
                violated, or willfully aided and abetted the violation of, any provision of the 
                securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
         
2
        Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that:  
 
                The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of 
                appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
                engaged in unethical or impr   oper professional conduct.   
 
3
        The findings herein are made pursuant to Respondents       ’ Offers of Settlement and are not 
        binding on any other person or entity in this or any other proceeding.  
 
                                                    2 
                                                     
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 
February 1, 2013 and January 31, 2014).  As a result of these audit failures, Respondents Kouser 
and Dougherty did not uncover Thibeault’s and GL Capital’s fraud. 
 
B.     RESPONDENTS 
 
       2.     Respondent Kouser is an engagement partner at accounting firm BBD who was   
responsible for The Fund’s fiscal year 2014 audit.  Kouser is still employed by BBD, but he no 
longer serves as an engagement partner responsible for audits of registered investment companies 
effective January 1, 2016.  Respondent Kouser, 51 years old, is licensed to practice as a certified 
public accountant (“CPA”) in Pennsylvania. 
        
       3.     Respondent Dougherty was an audit manager at accounting firm BBD who was 
responsible for executing the audit program, audit planning, and supervising staff as part of The 
Fund’s fiscal year 2014 audit.  He left BBD in February 2015.  Respondent Dougherty, 36 years 
old, is licensed to practice as a CPA in Pennsylvania. 
        
C.     OTHER RELEVANT ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUAL 
 
       4.     BBD, LLP (“BBD”) is a PCAOB-registered public accounting firm with its 
headquarters in Philadelphia, PA.  BBD was The Fund’s auditor for fiscal years 2013 and 2014 and 
issued audit reports pursuant to PCAOB Standards.  BBD currently has 62 employees and nine 
partners. 
        
       5.     Daniel Thibeault (“Thibeault”) was the Managing Director of GL Capital and 
assisted in the execution of The Fund’s investment strategies and marketing between December 
2011 and December 2014 when he was arrested and charged with securities fraud.  In the same 
time period, he was also The Fund’s co-portfolio manager. 
        
       6.     GL Capital Partners, LLC (“GL Capital”) was a registered investment adviser 
firm controlled by Thibeault.  It acted as the sole investment manager of The Fund. 
        
       7.     GL Beyond Income Fund (“The Fund”) is a registered investment company 
created by Thibeault on or about March 23, 2012 and managed by GL Capital. 
        
       8.     TAFT Financial Services, LLC (“TAFT”) was a special purpose limited liability 
company formed under the laws of the state of South Dakota in December 2011 as a loan 
originator.  Thibeault controlled TAFT, directed the origination and incorporation of this special 
purpose entity, and conducted its business in Massachusetts. 
        
 
 
 
 

                                               3 
                                                
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 
D.     FACTS 
 
       Thibeault’s and GL Capital’s Fraud 
 
       9.     Since its inception, The Fund pooled investor money to purchase consumer loans.  
These loans were considered assets of The Fund and the interest payments on these loans were 
intended to provide The Fund’s return on investment.  The Fund contained mostly small unsecured 
consumer loans each averaging approximately $12,000 in value.  By January 31, 2013 (the end of 
fiscal year 2013), there were more than 500 individual loans in The Fund.  And by January 31, 
2014 (the end of fiscal year 2014), the total number of loans in The Fund grew to more than 1,000.  
Starting in February 2013 (the beginning of fiscal year 2014), Thibeault misappropriated his 
investors’ money by creating fictitious loans and diverting the disbursement of loan proceeds to his 
personal and business bank accounts.  Thibeault used the names and personal information of 
friends and associates without their knowledge or permission to create these fraudulent loans.  
Using these identities, Thibeault prepared forged promissory notes to cover up his 
misappropriations.   
 
       10.    In the books and records of The Fund, the fraudulent loans Thibeault had created 
were designated with a program code “TA,” which indicated that the loans were originated through 
TAFT Financial Services, LLC (each a “TA Loan” or together the “TA Loans”).  TAFT, a special 
purpose vehicle controlled by Thibeault, was used as an intermediary to issue the fraudulent loans.  
During the period covered by the fiscal year 2014 audit (February 1, 2013 to January 31, 2014), 
The Fund purportedly acquired 22 TA Loans valued at $8,500,000, or $387,000 on average with 
the largest being $537,000.  Each of the TA Loans was significantly larger than the typical loans 
acquired by The Fund, which rarely exceeded $20,000.  After the close of fiscal year 2014 
(January 31, 2014), The Fund purportedly acquired additional TA Loans, some of which were 
purportedly acquired while the audit for fiscal year 2014 was ongoing.  By the end of calendar year 
2014, The Fund’s valuation report reflected 40 TA Loans with an aggregate reported value of 
approximately $16 million.  All $16 million had, in fact, been misappropriated by Thibeault and 
GL Capital. 
 
       11.    Throughout fiscal year 2014 (February 1, 2013 to January 31, 2014), The Fund also 
“invested” approximately $6 million in private placement promissory notes called LAOH Notes 
for factoring transactions with Philippine companies that purportedly had supplied raw materials to 
two major conglomerates in the Philippines.  Factoring transactions involve the sale of a business’s 
accounts receivable to a third party at a discount in order to meet the business’s cash needs.  The 
factoring transaction here involved the use of two shell companies (one domestic and one in the 
Philippines).  Money from The Fund was purportedly used to purchase the accounts receivable of 
the Philippine suppliers such that, when the two conglomerates made payments, the money would 
be transferred back to The Fund.  In reality, all of the funds related to the LAOH Notes were 
misappropriated. 
 

                                                4 
                                                 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 
       12.    On December 11, 2014, Thibeault was arrested and charged with criminal securities 
fraud by the United States Attorney’s Office for the District of Massachusetts.  On March 3, 2016, 
Thibeault pled guilty to one count of securities fraud and one count of obstruction of justice.   On 
June 16, 2016, he was sentenced to nine years in prison with three years of supervised release, and 
was ordered to pay $15,300,403 in restitution.   
        
       13.    On January 9, 2015, the Commission filed a civil securities fraud action against 
Thibeault, GL Capital, and others.  On September 23, 2016, a final judgment was entered against 
Thibeault in the Commission’s civil action against him.  The final judgment permanently enjoined 
Thibeault from violating Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, Section 
17(a) of the Securities Act of 1933, and Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of the Investment Advisers Act 
of 1940.  In addition, the final judgment ordered that Thibeault’s obligation to pay disgorgement of 
$15,300,403 and prejudgment interest thereon be deemed satisfied by the order of restitution 
entered in the parallel criminal proceeding. 
        
       Audit Work Performed by Kouser and Dougherty for The Fund 
        
       14.    BBD performed the audits for The Fund for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2013 
(fiscal year 2013) and January 31, 2014 (fiscal year 2014).  Kouser was the engagement partner for 
both of these audits, and Dougherty was the audit manager for these audits.  Both Kouser and 
Dougherty had no experience with the kind of factoring transactions in the LAOH Notes.  Further, 
neither Kouser nor Dougherty ever audited any funds with consumer loans as assets.  Numerous 
delays in confirming information regarding the LAOH Notes as part of valuation procedures 
caused BBD to delay the issuance of its audit report for fiscal year 2014.  BBD’s audit report for 
the fiscal year 2014 audit was not issued until May 29, 2014, nearly four months after The Fund’s 
fiscal year-end.   
        
       15.    Kouser only had one meeting with Thibeault over the course of the audits even 
though Thibeault was the principal of GL Capital and the co-portfolio manager of The Fund.  
During that meeting, Kouser and Thibeault focused on a PowerPoint document Thibeault had 
created regarding the LAOH Notes.  Dougherty never met with Thibeault.  The procedures 
performed for GL Capital and The Fund by BBD’s auditing team were not sufficient, even though 
Kouser understood that The Fund’s audit was “more involved” than a typical audit because of the 
type of assets held by The Fund. 
 
       Failure to Act with Due Professional Care and Exercise Professional Skepticism 
        
       16.    Under PCAOB Standards, auditors are required to exercise due professional care in 
                                                                                4
the planning and performance of the audit and the preparation of the audit report.  AU Section 
230.01.  Due professional care requires the engagement partner to know, at a minimum, the 

                                                 
4
       Citations to PCAOB Standards (“AU” or “AS”) are citations to standards in effect at the 
       time of the relevant conduct.   
                                                5 
                                                  
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 
relevant professional accounting and auditing standards, as well as to be knowledgeable about the 
client.  AU Section 230.06.  Further, the auditors are required to exercise professional skepticism, 
an attitude that includes a questioning mind and a critical assessment of audit evidence.  AU 
Section 230.07.    
 
       17.    PCAOB Standards further require that auditors evaluate whether matters such as 
the subject entity’s business, operating characteristics, extent of recent changes in operations and 
internal controls, among others, are important to the company’s financial statements and if so, how 
they will affect the auditor’s procedures.  AS No. 9.7.  Further, “they should perform risk 
assessment procedures that are sufficient to provide a reasonable basis for identifying and 
assessing the risk of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and designing further 
audit procedures.”  AS No. 12.4. 
        
               Failure to Understand the TA Loans and Their Impact on The Fund 
        
       18.    In early 2014, at the outset of the fiscal year 2014 audit, GL Capital informed 
Kouser and Dougherty that The Fund had acquired larger loans, which had been originated during 
fiscal year 2014, and that these loans were larger because they were purportedly backing 
businesses or professional practices.   
        
       19.    In actuality, as of January 31, 2014 (the end of fiscal year 2014), The Fund’s 
records reflected 22 TA Loans totaling $8.5 million (or $387,000 on average), with the largest loan 
valued at $537,000.  The TA Loans were significantly different in nature and size from the more 
than 1,000 consumer loans ordinarily held by The Fund, which averaged $12,000 each and rarely 
exceeded $20,000.  The TA Loans represented over 36% of the total consumer loan amounts in 
The Fund as of January 31, 2014.  Moreover, 18 additional TA Loans had been acquired after 
January 31, 2014 (fiscal year 2015), for a total of 40 TA Loans, with a combined value of 
approximately $16 million.  Because Thibeault was arrested in December 2014, the fiscal year 
2015 audit was never conducted.  The TA Loans were all serviced through a loan servicing entity 
affiliated with Thibeault, GL Capital, and The Fund. 
        
       20.    TAFT, the entity that purportedly originated the TA Loans, was nominally run by a 
bartender friend of Thibeault’s with no banking, lending, or investment experience.  Thibeault was 
not listed in the company’s state filings as an owner of TAFT, but he had the authority to disburse 
funds from TAFT bank accounts.  Kouser and Dougherty were also aware that The Fund had a 
line-of-credit account with TAFT, which had a zero balance as of January 31, 2014.  Yet, neither 
Kouser nor Dougherty asked about the owner of TAFT.  They also did not make sufficient 
inquiries to determine whether TAFT was a related-party to The Fund. 
                
       21.    Kouser and Dougherty did not pay proper attention to the TA Loans.  In fact, they 
asked no questions about them even though at the start of the 2014 audit, the TA Loans were brand 

                                                6 
                                                  
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 
                                                                                             5
new to The Fund, and represented over 36% of the value of all consumer loans in The Fund.       
Further, Kouser and Dougherty did not recognize the significance of the TA Loans and failed to 
make inquiries about them even though they were significantly different from the historically 
smaller unsecured consumer loans made by The Fund. 
 
       22.    None of the documents prepared by or for Kouser and Dougherty as part of The 
Fund’s fiscal 2014 audit planning even identified that the larger TA Loans were new to the 
portfolio and represented a significant portion of the total consumer loan value in The Fund.  By 
not scrutinizing the TA Loans, not only did they fail to obtain an adequate understanding of The 
Fund and its business environment, but Kouser and Dougherty also failed to gain an understanding 
of the investments made by The Fund and GL Capital.  As a result, Kouser and Dougherty failed to 
identify and assess investment risks and fraud risks related to the significantly larger loans as part 
of the audit planning process, and thus failed to perform appropriate audit procedures to address 
these risks. 
        
       23.    Kouser and Dougherty signed off on BBD’s audit planning memo and risk 
assessment, which failed to note that the significantly larger TA Loans were purportedly used to 
back businesses or professional practices, in contrast to the traditional smaller loans in The Fund 
that were unsecured consumer loans.  Further, neither Kouser nor Dougherty understood or asked 
whether money distributed to these purported borrowers was going to any actual businesses or 
professional practices.   
 
               Failure to Understand and Properly Confirm Information Related to the LAOH 
               Notes 

       24.    Facts about the LAOH Notes, as they were known to Kouser and Dougherty, 
required heightened scrutiny.  First, the LAOH Notes were substantially different from the 
investments The Fund had traditionally made—the LAOH Notes were private placement 
promissory notes and not small unsecured consumer loans.  Second, the structure of the LAOH 
Notes was very different from the direct lending investments that The Fund had historically made 
and included the creation of two shell companies to facilitate these transactions.  Third, one of the 
shell companies that facilitated the LAOH Notes was owned by someone who also had owned 
more than 5% of the shares of The Fund in 2012 (in fact, that person owned more than 20%).  
Fourth, before investing in the LAOH Notes, the Fund had never entered into either a factoring 
transaction or an international investment.   
        
       25.    During The Fund’s fiscal year 2014 audit, Kouser and Dougherty should have also 
learned additional facts concerning the LAOH Notes.  For instance, Thibeault solicited one of his 
college friends to create one of the shell companies that facilitated the LAOH Notes.   
        

                                                 
5
       After January 31, 2014   (close of fiscal year 2014) and while the 2014 audit was being 
       performed, The Fund continued to     acquire TA Loa  ns which grew to be an even larger 
       percentage of the Fund’s assets.    
                                                 7 
                                                   
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 
       26.    Kouser and Dougherty did not ask why either of the shell companies created to 
facilitate the LAOH Notes transactions was necessary to the transactions.  Further, they failed to 
identify and assess the fraud risks of these transactions in the Philippines in the audit work papers.   
 
       27.    Auditors “should place emphasis on testing material transactions with parties he 
knows are related to the reporting entity.”  AU Section 334.07.  To determine the existence of 
related party transactions, auditors may review material investment transactions to “determine 
whether the nature and extent of investments during the period create related parties.”  AU Section 
334.07.  Despite knowing that one individual currently owned one of the shell companies that 
facilitated the LAOH Notes and had owned more than 5% (and in fact owned 20%) of the shares of 
The Fund in 2012, Kouser and Dougherty failed to ask anyone at GL Capital or the shell company 
about the relationship between the entities.  Had Kouser and Dougherty appropriately inquired 
about the nature of these transactions, it would have revealed that, in addition to owning a 
significant portion of The Fund, the individual who owned that shell company (i) had created the 
shell company solely at the direction of Thibeault, and (ii) was listed as a borrower in The Fund 
who held a note of approximately $418,000 with an interest rate over 15%.  Had the auditors 
known this information, they would have been required to perform additional auditing procedures 
to determine the legitimacy and valuation of the LAOH Notes. 
        
       28.    During the process of confirming information related to the LAOH Notes as part of 
valuation procedures, Kouser and Dougherty failed to seek confirmation from the two major 
conglomerates in the Philippines that were purportedly the entities ultimately responsible for 
payment on the LAOH Notes.  Had confirmations been obtained from these two companies, it 
would have likely revealed that the factoring transactions did not exist and the funds had been 
misappropriated. 
        
       29.    PCAOB Standards require auditors to consider the competency and sufficiency of 
evidence gathered during the audit, assess the fraud risk throughout the audit, and maintain 
professional skepticism throughout the confirmation process.  AU Section 230.08, AS No. 14.28, 
and AU Section 330.15.  Further, in evaluating the assessed fraud risks, auditors should take into 
account matters like “documents that appear to have been altered,” “unusual discrepancies between 
the company’s records and confirmation responses,” and “unusual delays by management in 
providing requested information” such as during the confirmation process, among others.  AS No. 
14 (Appendix C).   
        
       30.    Kouser and Dougherty failed to exercise heightened scrutiny when several 
circumstances surrounding the process of confirming information related to the valuation of the 
LAOH Notes called into question the reliability of the purported confirmations.  First, as Kouser 
and Dougherty were aware, there were significant delays in getting responses from the suppliers in 
the Philippines as to the amounts they purportedly received from one of the shell companies.  
Indeed, these delays were so significant that they held up the issuance of BBD’s audit report.  
Second, when the confirmations were finally sent to BBD, the documents had identical type-face 
and dates, even though they purported to come from different businesses in the Philippines.  

                                                8 
                                                  
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 
Dougherty and Kouser were aware of this anomaly; indeed, Dougherty remarked to Kouser that 
everyone in the Philippines “must use the same type-writer.”  Third, the purported confirmations 
were all sent to BBD within 30 minutes of each other.  Lastly, the confirmations contained multiple 
errors.  With all these unusual circumstances and discrepancies surrounding the confirmation 
process, which would have led a reasonably skeptical auditor to question the reliability of those 
confirmations, Kouser and Dougherty should have taken additional steps to verify the LAOH 
Notes as assets of The Funds.  For instance, an internet search would have revealed that the 
purported email addresses for these Philippine suppliers provided to Kouser and Dougherty by GL 
Capital did not match the public website domain addresses for the actual Philippine companies 
with those business names and were thus likely fictitious.  Further, Kouser and Dougherty could 
have attempted to verify the source of the email responses with a telephone call to the purported 
sender.  But even these steps were not taken.  
 
               Failure to Understand The Fund’s Internal Controls 
                
       31.    As the engagement partner who is ultimately responsible for the audit, Kouser 
failed to obtain an appropriate understanding of the internal controls for The Fund, as required by 
AS No. 12.18.  In its planning work papers, BBD determined The Fund’s control environment to 
be low risk due to The Fund’s use of third-party service providers, including The Fund’s custodian 
(the “custody bank”).   As a result, Kouser relied solely on the custody bank to confirm the 
existence of The Fund’s assets.  But Kouser did not understand, and did not inquire of anyone at 
the custody bank or The Fund, what steps, if any, the custody bank undertook to substantiate 
ownership of the loans.  Kouser also never asked about and thus never understood what loan 
documents were verified or maintained by the custody bank, nor did he ask who was providing the 
underlying loan documents to the custody bank.  Further, Kouser failed to inquire whether the 
custody bank actually verified anything with the underlying borrowers of the consumer loans.  
Kouser obtained and reviewed a service report from the custody bank for the period covering the 
audit; however, the report did not specifically address procedures covering the alternative assets 
present in The Fund.      
 
              Failure to Select Representative Sample of The Fund’s Assets 
 
       32.    PCAOB Standards require that samples used in an audit be “selected in such a way 
that the sample can be expected to be representative of the population.”  AU Section 350.24.  
Though Kouser and Dougherty signed work papers confirming that they tested a representative 
sample of loans in The Fund’s portfolio, their method involved a haphazard selection of 40 loans in 
The Fund’s portfolio, and did not include any of the (fraudulent) TA Loans.  The TA Loans were 
more than a third of the portfolio, and were significantly larger in value and made on different 
terms than the other loans.  These loans purportedly backed businesses or professional practices 
and had different interest rate structures and collateral arrangements from the traditional loans in 
the portfolio.  For instance, collateral arrangements did not exist for the traditional unsecured 
consumer loans.  Kouser and Dougherty failed to recognize that there were different types of loans 
in The Fund’s portfolio and that different samples should have been created for each type of loan 

                                                9 
                                                  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 
for testing.  As a result, the sample tested was not representative of The Fund’s portfolio of 
investments and Kouser and Dougherty did not obtain the loan origination documents for the TA 
Loans that were fabricated, with fictitious borrower information and forged signatures. 
        
       Failure to Obtain Sufficient Appropriate Audit Evidence 
 
       33.    PCAOB Standards require that auditors “plan and perform audit procedures to 
obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence to provide a reasonable basis for his or her opinion.”  
AS No. 15.4.   
 
       34.    Kouser and Dougherty failed to obtain sufficient evidence as to the valuation of the 
TA Loans.  The Fund’s annual report stated that securities it held would be measured at “fair 
value.”  PCAOB Standards require that auditors obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence that 
provides “reasonable assurance that fair value measurements and disclosures are in conformity 
with GAAP.”  AU Section 328.03.  To do so, auditors should gain an understanding of the entity’s 
process for determining fair value measurement and disclosures in order to plan the nature, timing, 
and extent of the audit procedures.  AU Sections 328.11 and 328.12.  The unsecured consumer loan 
investments historically made by The Fund were $12,000 on average and were valued using GL 
Capital’s proprietary valuation model.  The model, designed for loans up to $35,000, primarily 
used borrower’s credit scores and payment history to value the consumer loans.  The TA Loans, 
however, were much larger and had an average value of $387,000 as of the end of fiscal year 2014 
(January 31, 2014).  Kouser and Dougherty failed to ask about or understand the propriety of using 
a valuation model designed for loans up to $35,000 for the much larger TA Loans.  The TA Loans 
also had different valuation factors from the smaller traditional consumer loans, and Kouser and 
Dougherty did not understand or make any inquiries into these valuation factors, which included 
the collateral that purportedly secured the TA Loans and the one-year interest deferral on the TA 
Loans.  Because they had no understanding and made no inquiries into these valuation factors, 
Kouser and Dougherty failed to properly assess the TA Loans’ value. 
 
       35.    Had Kouser and Dougherty made the necessary inquiries, they would have 
recognized that the TA Loans were different in several ways from The Fund’s traditional 
unsecured consumer loan investments and these differences made additional audit procedures 
necessary.  Kouser and Dougherty should have evaluated the value of the collateral by obtaining 
evidence of the underlying promissory notes, collateral arrangements, and lending documents.  
Instead, Kouser and Dougherty considered only the historical payments on the TA Loans and 
performed no analysis or inquiry into the promissory notes or collateral underlying the TA Loans. 
        
       36.    Kouser and Dougherty failed to obtain sufficient evidence to confirm information 
concerning the valuation of the LAOH Notes with the two Philippine conglomerates that were 
purportedly responsible for the payment on the LAOH Notes.  Had confirmations been sent to 
these entities, it would have likely revealed that the factoring transactions did not exist and that 
investor funds had been misappropriated.  By failing to assess payment terms with the entities 

                                               10 
                                                  
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 
holding the “credit risk” to the transactions, Kouser and Dougherty did not properly audit the 
valuation of the LAOH Notes.  AU Section 328.03.   
 
       Failure to Properly Prepare Audit Documentation 
 
       37.    Under PCAOB Standards, auditors should prepare audit documentation in sufficient 
detail to provide a clear understanding of its purpose, source, and the conclusions reached.  AS No. 
3.4.  Also, the documentation should be appropriately organized to provide a clear link to the 
significant findings or issues.  AS No. 3.4. 
        
       38.    Kouser repeatedly failed to prepare adequate documentation for numerous aspects 
of the audit of The Fund.  For instance, he failed to document information concerning the custody 
bank’s procedures on the custody and verification of consumer loans in The Fund’s portfolio and 
information concerning the two fraud risk discussions he claims he had with The Fund’s co-
portfolio manager and an associate general counsel at GL Capital. 
 
E.     Findings 
 
       39.    Based on the foregoing, the Commission finds that the Respondents engaged in 
improper professional conduct under Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) 
of the Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
                
                                               IV. 
                                                  
       In view of the foregoing, the Commission deems it appropriate to impose the sanctions 
agreed to in Respondents’ Offers. 
 
       Accordingly, it is hereby ORDERED, effective immediately, that: 
 
       A.      Kouser is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission as 
an accountant.  
 
               1.     After three years from the date of this order, Kouser may request that 
       the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
       Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as: 
      
                      a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                          review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                          the Commission (other than as a member of an audit committee, as that 
                          term is defined in Section 3(a)(58) of the Exchange Act).  Such an 
                          application must satisfy the Commission that Kouser’s work in his 
                          practice before the Commission as an accountant will be reviewed either 

                                                11 
                                                  
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 
                          by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
                          works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                          the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                           
                      b.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                          review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                          the Commission as a member of an audit committee, as that term is 
                          defined in Section 3(a)(58) of the Exchange Act.  Such an application 
                          will be considered on a facts and circumstances basis with respect to 
                          such membership, and the applicant’s burden of demonstrating good 
                          cause for reinstatement will be particularly high given the role of the 
                          audit committee in financial and accounting matters; and/or 
 
                      c.  an independent accountant.   
        
                      Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
      
                              (1)     Kouser, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                                      associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance 
                                      with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
                                      continues to be effective; 
 
                              (2)     Kouser, or the registered public accounting firm with which 
                                      he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB and that 
                                      inspection did not identify any criticisms of or potential 
                                      defects in Kouser’s or the firm’s quality control system that 
                                      would indicate that Kouser will not receive appropriate 
                                      supervision; 

                              (3)     Kouser has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                                      PCAOB, and has complied with all terms and conditions of 
                                      any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
                                      reinstatement by the Commission); and 
 
                              (4)     Kouser acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he 
                                      appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                                      independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
                                      the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited 
                                      to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
                                      concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
               2.     The Commission will consider an application by Kouser to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
       current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
                                                12 
                                                  
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 
       of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to Kouser’s character, integrity professional conduct, or 
       qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission as an accountant.  Whether an 
       application demonstrates good cause will be considered on a facts and circumstances 
       basis with due regard for protecting the integrity of the Commission’s processes. 
 
       B.      Dougherty is denied the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission 
as an accountant.  
 
               1.     After two years from the date of this order, Dougherty may request that 
       the Commission consider his reinstatement by submitting an application (attention: 
       Office of the Chief Accountant) to resume appearing or practicing before the 
       Commission as: 
      
                      a.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                          review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                          the Commission (other than as a member of an audit committee, as that 
                          term is defined in Section 3(a)(58) of the Exchange Act).  Such an 
                          application must satisfy the Commission that Dougherty’s work in his 
                          practice before the Commission as an accountant will be reviewed either 
                          by the independent audit committee of the public company for which he 
                          works or in some other acceptable manner, as long as he practices before 
                          the Commission in this capacity; and/or 
                           
                      b.  a preparer or reviewer, or a person responsible for the preparation or 
                          review, of any public company’s financial statements that are filed with 
                          the Commission as a member of an audit committee, as that term is 
                          defined in Section 3(a)(58) of the Exchange Act.  Such an application 
                          will be considered on a facts and circumstances basis with respect to 
                          such membership, and the applicant’s burden of demonstrating good 
                          cause for reinstatement will be particularly high given the role of the 
                          audit committee in financial and accounting matters; and/or 
 
                      c.  an independent accountant.   
        
                      Such an application must satisfy the Commission that: 
      
                              (1)     Dougherty, or the public accounting firm with which he is 
                                      associated, is registered with the PCAOB in accordance 
                                      with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and such registration 
                                      continues to be effective; 

                                                13 
                                                  
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 
 
                              (2)    Dougherty, or the registered public accounting firm with 
                                     which he is associated, has been inspected by the PCAOB 
                                     and that inspection did not identify any criticisms of or 
                                     potential defects in Dougherty’s or the firm’s quality 
                                     control system that would indicate that Dougherty will not 
                                     receive appropriate supervision; 

                              (3)    Dougherty has resolved all disciplinary issues with the 
                                     PCAOB, and has complied with all terms and conditions of 
                                     any sanctions imposed by the PCAOB (other than 
                                     reinstatement by the Commission); and  

                              (4)    Dougherty acknowledges his responsibility, as long as he 
                                     appears or practices before the Commission as an 
                                     independent accountant, to comply with all requirements of 
                                     the Commission and the PCAOB, including, but not limited 
                                     to, all requirements relating to registration, inspections, 
                                     concurring partner reviews and quality control standards.   
 
               2.     The Commission will consider an application by Dougherty to resume 
       appearing or practicing before the Commission provided that his state CPA license is 
       current and he has resolved all other disciplinary issues with the applicable state boards 
       of accountancy.  However, if state licensure is dependent on reinstatement by the 
       Commission, the Commission will consider an application on its other merits.  The 
       Commission’s review may include consideration of, in addition to the matters referenced 
       above, any other matters relating to Dougherty’s character, integrity professional conduct, 
       or qualifications to appear or practice before the Commission as an accountant.  Whether 
       an application demonstrates good cause will be considered on a facts and circumstances 
       basis with due regard for protecting the integrity of the Commission’s processes. 
 
 
               By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                    Brent J. Fields 
                                                    Secretary 
 
 
 

                                               14 
                                                 
