---------------------Page 1---------------------

                                  UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                                Before the 
                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80991 / June 21, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3880 / June 21, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-18039 
                                                   
                                                 :         
                                                  :        
                                                  :         
In the Matter of                                  :       ORDER INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE 
                                                  :       PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT TO RULE 
      CHRISTOPHER K. BRENNER,                     :       102(e) OF THE COMMISSION’S RULES OF 
      Esq. (CPA),                                 :       PRACTICE, MAKING FINDINGS, AND 
                                                  :       IMPOSING REMEDIAL SANCTIONS 
Respondent.                                       :        
                                                  :        
____________________________________ :                      
                                                           
                                                     I. 
 
        The Securities and Exchange Commission  (“Commission”)  deems it appropriate and in the 
public interest that public administrative  proceedings be, and hereby are, instituted  against 
Christopher K. Brenner (“Respondent” or “Brenner”) pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the 
                                    1
Commission’s  Rules of Practice.    
                                                       

                                               
1
  Rule 102(e)(3)(i) provides,  in relevant part, that:  
 
        The Commission,  with due regard to the public  interest and without  preliminary  hearing, 
        may, by order, . . . suspend from appearing or practicing  before it any attorney        [or] 
        accountant    . . . who has been by name  :  (A)  P ermanently enjoined  by any court of 
        competent jurisdiction,  by reason of his or her misconduct  in an action brought by the 
        Commission,  from violat   ing  or aiding  and abetting the violation  of any provision  of the 
        Federal securities laws or of the rules and regulations  thereunder; or (B)      F ound by any 
        court of competent jurisdiction  in an action brought by the Commission  to which he or 
        she is a party to  have violated  (unless the violation  was found not to have been willful)  or 
        aided and abetted the violation  of any provision  of the Federal securities laws or of the 
        rules and regulations  thereunder.    
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                II. 
 
       In anticipation  of the institution  of these proceedings, Respondent has submitted an Offer 
of Settlement (the “Offer”) which the Commission  has determined to accept.  Solely for the 
purpose of these proceedings and any other proceedings brought by or on behalf of the 
Commission,  or to which the Commission  is a party, and without admitting  or denying the findings 
herein, except as to the Commission’s  jurisdiction  over him and the subject matter of these 
proceedings, and the findings  contained in Section III.2 below, which are admitted, Respondent 
consents to the entry of this Order Instituting  Administrative  Proceedings Pursuant to Rule 102(e) 
of the Commission’s  Rules of Practice, Making Findings,  and Imposing Remedial Sanctions 
(“Order”), as set forth below.   
 
                                               III. 
 
        On the basis of this Order and Respondent’s Offer, the Commission finds that:  
 
       1.      Brenner, age 57, is a resident of Katy, Texas.  Brenner is an attorney licensed to 
practice law in Texas and in Colorado and he maintains a law practice in both states.  Brenner is 
also a certified public accountant licensed to practice in Texas.  From approximately  November 
2002 through October 2003, Brenner served as General Counsel and Chief Financial Officer for 
Usurf America Inc., a public  company that traded on the American Stock Exchange and later on 
the OTC Bulletin  Board.  In June 2009, the Colorado Division  of Securities enjoined Brenner for 
violations  of the registration requirements of the Colorado Securities Act in connection with his 
involvement  in a private offering of securities conducted by Equity Edge Companies LLC, an 
investment company for whom Brenner served as outside counsel and Chief Financial Officer.  
        
       2.      On May 13, 2016, the Commission  filed a complaint against Brenner in SEC v. 
Rust, et al. (Civil  Action No. 1:16CV03573),  in the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of New York.  On June 9, 2017, the court entered a judgment permanently enjoining 
Brenner, by consent, from future violations  of Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and Rule 10b-5 thereunder.  
 
       3.      The Commission’s complaint alleged, among other things, that from September 
2011 through March 2012, Brenner knowingly made material misrepresentations and omissions to 
individuals  and businesses by misleading  them about the use of their funds to purchase securities, 
ostensibly for the purpose of obtaining  commercial loans through an entity called Atlantic Rim 
Funding  Corp. (“Atlantic”).  The Commission  further alleged that Brenner claimed to these 
individuals  and businesses that Atlantic could arrange commercial loans for them if they deposited 
cash amounting to 10% of the anticipated loans with him, in his capacity as escrow agent and 
pursuant to written escrow agreements he authored.  According to the Commission’s  complaint, 
Brenner knowingly  misled these individuals  and businesses into believing  that he would use their 
money to buy liquid,  “government-backed” securities that Atlantic would leverage in order to fund 
a loan.  Brenner, the Commission  alleged, assured them that if Atlantic did not procure the loans 
within an agreed-upon time, they would receive their cash back promptly and, upon successful 
closing of the loans, they would receive their cash back, together with the loan proceeds. The 

                                                 2  
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Complaint  alleged that the governing escrow agreements provided for only nominal  compensation 
to Brenner for transferring their funds as needed.  However, the Commission  alleged, Brenner’s 
representations and assurances were knowingly false.  The Commission  alleged that Brenner did 
not intend to use, and did not use, his clients’ funds to purchase liquid  or “government-backed” 
securities and to take only the nominal  fees set out in the escrow agreements, but, rather:  (1) 
siphoned off escrow funds as payments to himself,  Atlantic, and others; and (2) with the remainder, 
purchased volatile,  illiquid  securities derivatives that lacked any meaningful  government 
guarantee.  Atlantic, meanwhile, the Commission  alleged, failed to arrange any loans for any of 
these individuals  and businesses, as Brenner knew during the relevant period. Nonetheless, the 
Complaint  alleged, between September 2011 and July 2012, Brenner diverted to himself at least 
$105,000  of his escrow client funds to himself,  and at least an additional  $490,000  of those funds 
to Atlantic and its associates.     
 
                                                IV. 
                                                   
        In view of the foregoing, the Commission  deems it appropriate and in the public interest to 
impose the sanction agreed to in Respondent Brenner’s Offer. 
 
        Accordingly,  it is hereby ORDERED pursuant to Rule 102(e)(3)(i) of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, effective immediately,  that: 
 
       Brenner is suspended from appearing or practicing  before the Commission  as an attorney 
or accountant. 
        
 
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                      Brent J. Fields 
                                                      Secretary 

                                                 3  
