---------------------Page 1---------------------

 
                              UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                           Before the 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
Release No. 80103 / February 24, 2017 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT 
Release No. 3860 / February 24, 2017 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-17857 
 
 
                                             ORDER INSTITUTING PUBLIC 

                                             ADMINISTRATIVE AND CEASE -AND-

In the Matter of                             DESIST PROCEEDINGS PURSUANT 

                                             TO SECTIONS 4C AND 21C OF THE 

       Edward Richardson Jr.,                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 

       CPA and Edward                        1934 AND RULE 102(e) OF THE 

       Richardson Jr.,                       COMMISSION’S RULES OF 

                                              

Respondents.                                             

 
 
       
                                             
 
       The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, 
                                                 1
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 4C and 21C of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and 102(e)(1)(iii) of the Commission’s 
                2
Rules of Practice against Edward Richardson Jr., CPA (“Firm”) and Edward Richardson 
Jr. (“Richardson”) (collectively, “Respondents”). 

                                                 
1
       Section 4C provides, in relevant part, that:  
 
               The Commission may censure any person, or deny, temporarily or permanently, to any 
               person the privilege of appearing or practicing before the Commission in any way, if that 
               person is found . . . (1) not to possess the requisite qualifications to represent others . . . 
               (2) to be lacking in character or integrity, or to have engaged in unethical or improper 
               professional conduct; or (3) to have willfully violated, or willfully aided and abetted the 
               violation of, any provision of the securities laws or the rules and regulations thereunder. 
        
2
       Rule 102(e)(1)(ii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                                                
                                              II. 
                                                
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that: 
                                                
       A.      RESPONDENTS 
 
       1.      Edward Richardson Jr., age 68 and a resident of West Bloomfield, 
Michigan, is a CPA licensed in Michigan.  Richardson also holds accounting licenses and 
permits in several additional states.  Richardson, the sole owner of the Firm, was the 
engagement partner responsible for all of the audits conducted by the Firm for the fiscal 
years ended January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2015 (the “Relevant Period”).   
                
       2.      Edward Richardson Jr., CPA is an accounting and auditing firm registered 
with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (“PCAOB”) since 2009.  The 
Firm’s primary business is auditing small broker-dealers.  The Firm is located in 
Southfield, Michigan.  During most of the Relevant Period, the Firm employed one 
professional staff member in addition to Richardson and one clerical assistant.   
    
       B.      RESPONDENTS FAILED TO OBTAIN ENGAGEMENT QUALITY 
               REVIEWS REQUIRED BY PCAOB STANDARDS 
                
       1.      PCAOB Auditing Standard No. 7, Engagement Quality Review, requires 
auditors to obtain an Engagement Quality Review (“EQR”) and concurring approval from a 
competent reviewer who is independent from the audit client.   
        
       2.      The Firm served as the independent public accountant for an SEC registrant 
(“Issuer A”) in connection with financial statement audits for the fiscal years ended 
December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2013.  Respondents failed to obtain an EQR and 
concurring approval in connection with each audit of Issuer A for the fiscal years ended 
2012 and 2013.  In addition, the Firm issued an audit report in connection with each of its 
audits of Issuer A stating that the audit had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB 
standards. 
          
       3.      The Firm served as the independent public accountant for over 80 broker-
dealer audit clients in connection with financial statement audits required under paragraph 

                                                                                                                                                 
               The Commission may censure a person or deny, temporarily or permanently, the 
               privilege of appearing or practicing before it . . . to any person who is found . . . to have 
               engaged in unethical or improper professional conduct. 
 
       Rule 102(e)(1)(iii) provides, in pertinent part, that: 
 
               The Commission may . . . deny, temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or 
               practicing before it . . . to any person who is found…to have willfully violated, or 
               willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal securities laws or 
               the rules and regulations thereunder. 
 

                                              2 
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

(d) of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 for the fiscal years ended after June 1, 2014 and through 
                    3
December 31, 2014.      Respondents failed to obtain an EQR and concurring approval in 
connection with each of these audi ts.  In addition, the Firm issued an audit report in 
connection with each of these audits stating that the audit had been conducted in 
accordance with PCAOB standards.       
        
       4.      The Firm served as the independent public accountant for over 80 broker-
dealer audit clients in connection with financial statement audits required under paragraph 
(d) of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 for the fiscal years ended January 31, 2015 through 
December 31, 2015.  Respondents engaged an accountant to perform the required EQR 
with respect to a small number of these audits, but failed to do so for the remaining audits.  
For each of these remaining audits, the Firm issued an audit report stating that the audit had 
been conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards when Respondents knew that EQRs 
were required under PCAOB standards and had not been performed.    
 
       5.      As a result of Respondents’ conduct, Issuer A and dozens of the Firm’s 
broker-dealer audit clients filed with the Commission financial statements that included 
audit reports that falsely stated the audits had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB 
standards.      
        
       C.      RESPONDENTS FAILED TO COMPLY WITH NUMEROUS OTHER 
               PCAOB STANDARDS AND/OR GENERALLY ACCEPTED AUDITING 
               STANDARDS 
                
       1.      The Firm served as the independent public accountant for the financial 
statement audits of Issuer A for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2012 and December 
31, 2013, for the financial statement audit of a broker-dealer (“Broker-Dealer A”) for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2014, and for the financial statement audit of a broker-
dealer (“Broker-Dealer B”) for the fiscal year ended May 31, 2012.  In connection with 
these audits, Richardson and the Firm failed to comply with numerous PCAOB auditing 
standards and/or generally accepted auditing standards (“GAAS”), as described below.  
Taken together, these failures evidence a persistent lack of due care by 
Respondents.  Respondents neither possess the degree of skill commonly possessed by 
auditors nor exercised reasonable care and diligence in performing audit work.  
        
       2.      In 2012, 2013, and 2014 respectively, the Firm served as the independent 
public accountant for the financial statement audits of over 75 clients each year that filed 
audited financial statements with the Commission.  A large percentage of these audit clients 
have fiscal years ending on December 31.  For example, the Firm audited over 75 broker-
dealers with fiscal years ended December 31, 2014, and approximately 70 of the audit 
reports signed by the Firm are dated February 16, 2015. 
        

                                                 
3
       Audits of broker-dealers for fiscal years ending on or after June 1, 2014 are required to be 
performed in accordance with PCAOB standards.  See Exchange Act Rule 17 C.F.R. § 240.17a-5(g)(1); 
Broker-Dealer Reports, SEC Release No. 34-70073 (July 30, 2013), 78 Fed. Reg. 51910 (Aug. 21, 2013). 

                                              3 
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        3.      Auditing Standard No. 8, Audit Risk, discusses the auditor’s consideration 
of audit risk and requires the auditor to plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement due to 
error or fraud.  Auditing Standard No. 12, Identifying and Assessing Risks of Material 
Misstatement, establishes requirements regarding the process of identifying and assessing 
risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, thereby providing a basis for 
designing and implementing responses to those risks.  Auditing Standard No. 13, The 
Auditor’s Response to the Risks of Material Misstatement, establishes requirements 
regarding designing and implementing responses to the risks of material misstatement 
through appropriate overall audit responses and audit procedures.  Respondents did not 
appropriately perform risk assessment procedures during the audits of Issuer A and/or 
Broker-Dealer A.  For example, in instances where Respondents identified fraud risks 
during their audits of Issuer A and/or Broker-Dealer A, the audit responses to such risks 
were inappropriate, inconsistent, or incomplete.  During the audit of Broker-Dealer A, 
Respondents identified revenue recognition and management override of controls as 
possible fraud risks and documented that the audit responses were to confirm revenue and 
test controls.  Respondents, however, only subjected one of the client’s three revenue 
streams to confirmation procedures, and the confirmation procedures that were performed 
were inadequate, including, but not limited to, the design and timing of the confirmation 
procedures and the failure to address exceptions and non-responses.  In addition, 
Respondents did not obtain or document a sufficient understanding of, or adequately test, 
internal controls, yet concluded that internal controls were designed and implemented 
effectively and that the risk of material misstatement related to control risk was low for all 
audit areas.  In addition, when documenting opportunities for fraud, Respondents identified 
a lack of segregation of duties due to the size of Broker-Dealer A as an opportunity for 
fraud, but inappropriately noted that this risk was “offset by the fact that the FINOP and 
FINRA auditors closely watches [sic] and reviews financial statement activity.”  The 
       4
FINOP    was an employee of Broker    - Dealer   and FINRA do es not perform the function 
noted by Respondents   .   During the audits of Issuer A, Respondents inappropriately 
identified reliance upon reviews by SEC staff   as part of their risk assessment procedures, 
and inaccurately identified such reviews as being a “key control.”  Respondents also 
identified risks related to financial reporting by stating:  “Shortcomings in financial 
statements would be frowned [sic] by the SEC.” 
         
                                 5
        4.      AU Section 334,    Related Parties, provides guidance on procedures that 
should be considered by the auditor to address related party transactions.  Respondents did 
not obtain an understanding of the nature, purpose, or collectability of related party 
receivables during the audit of Broker-Dealer A.  Respondents also did not identify that 

                                                 
4
        A “FINOP” is a broker-dealer’s Financial and Operations Principal, who has responsibilities 
related to, among other things, financial reporting and recordkeeping. 
 
5
        The PCAOB adopted as interim standards, on a transitional basis, the auditing standards 
promulgated by the Auditing Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants as 
in existence on April 16, 2003, to the extent not superseded or amended by the PCAOB.  See PCAOB Rule 
3200T, Interim Auditing Standards.  Standards identified by the letters “AU” are such standards.   

                                               4 
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

required disclosures concerning related party transactions were missing from the footnotes 
to Broker-Dealer A’s financial statements despite being aware of the transactions. 
        
       5.      AU Section 330, The Confirmation Process, provides guidance about the 
confirmation process in audits performed in accordance with PCAOB standards, including 
the design of confirmations and performing alternative procedures when responses to 
confirmation requests are not received.  With respect to the audits of Issuer A and/or 
Broker-Dealer A, Respondents did not appropriately design confirmations and performed 
insufficient procedures, including, but not limited to, performing no procedures whatsoever 
when confirmations were either returned with discrepancies or not returned at all. 
 
       6.      Auditing Standard No. 3, Audit Documentation, establishes general 
requirements for documentation the auditor should prepare and retain in connection with 
engagements conducted pursuant to PCAOB standards.  Audit documentation created and 
maintained by Respondents during the audits of Issuer A and/or Broker-Dealer A, and 
created by staff under Richardson’s supervision, was inadequate, incomplete, unclear, and 
contained numerous mistakes and inconsistencies.  For example, audit documentation 
frequently failed to indicate the source, person responsible for the preparation and/or 
review of the document, and the dates of preparation and/or review; details of 
conversations with clients’ management were not documented, even when such 
conversation was the sole support for the completion of relevant audit steps; and certain 
workpapers were dated after the date of the audit report, and there was no documentation of 
the reason for adding such workpapers.  In addition, an experienced auditor could not look 
at the audit documentation and understand the procedures performed, evidence obtained, or 
conclusions reached. 
        
       7.      Auditing Standard No. 14, Evaluating Audit Results, establishes 
requirements regarding the auditor’s evaluation of the audit results and determination of 
whether he or she has obtained sufficient appropriate audit evidence.  Auditing Standard 
No. 15, Audit Evidence, explains what constitutes audit evidence and establishes 
requirements regarding designing and performing audit procedures to obtain sufficient 
appropriate audit evidence.  Respondents failed to appropriately evaluate audit results 
during the audits of Issuer A and/or Broker-Dealer A.  For example, Respondents’ 
workpapers for Broker-Dealer A include an Accumulated Misstatement Evaluation Form, 
which purports to list, and evaluate, the misstatements or errors identified during the audit.  
This workpaper is incomplete and inaccurate because it identifies only one misstatement or 
error, although several misstatements or errors were identified by Respondents during the 
audit.  Moreover, the required evaluation of misstatements in their totality was neither 
performed nor documented.  In addition, Respondents signed off on the audit report prior to 
performing audit procedures that were intended to respond to the identified fraud risk 
related to revenue recognition.   
        
       8.      Respondents also failed to comply with additional PCAOB auditing 
standards during their audits of Issuer A and/or Broker-Dealer A, including, but not limited 
to, Auditing Standard No. 16, Communication with Audit Committees, including, but not 
limited to, the lack of required communications with the audit committee; PCAOB Rule 

                                            5 
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

3526, including the lack of communication with the audit committee concerning 
independence; AU Section 316, Consideration of Fraud in the Financial Statement 
Process, including, but not limited to, deficient testing of journal entries;  AU Section 333, 
Management Representations, including, but not limited to, the fact that Broker-Dealer A’s 
management representation letter is dated after the date of the audit report; AU Section 
508, Reports on Audited Financial Statements and AU Section 530, Dating of Independent 
Auditor’s Report, including, but not limited to, inaccurate audit report dates; and AU 
Section 550, Other Information in Documents Containing Audited Financial Statements, 
including, but not limited to, the failure to read and consider information included in Issuer 
A’s Form 10-K and Form 10-K/A filings, other than the audited financial statements, prior 
to filing with the SEC. 
        
       9.     AU Section 230, Due Professional Care in the Performance of Work, 
imposes upon an auditor the responsibility to observe the standards of field work and 
reporting and to exercise professional skepticism.  In addition to the foregoing, 
Respondents failure to comply with AU Section 230 includes, but is not limited to, the use 
of outdated and inapplicable audit programs in connection with audits of Issuer A.  For 
example, Respondents used a superseded disclosure requirements checklist for nonpublic 
businesses from January 2007 in connection with the audit of Issuer A’s financial 
statements for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012.  Respondents’ workpapers also 
reflect responses that were cut-and-pasted from the workpapers of other audit clients.  For 
example, some workpapers for the audit of Broker-Dealer B document discussions with a 
different audit client’s President and some workpapers for the audit of Issuer A identify 
clearing broker statements as a source document – as so identified in the workpapers for 
Broker-Dealer B as well as other broker-dealer audit clients – although Issuer A was not in 
the brokerage business.   In total, the breadth and depth of the audit issues related to 
Respondents’ audits, including the audit failures described above and the presence of 
numerous mistakes, errors, and/or oversights in the workpapers, demonstrate a lack of due 
professional care in the performance of work. 
        
       10.    As a result of Respondents’ conduct, Issuer A, Broker-Dealer A, and 
Broker-Dealer B filed with the Commission financial statements that included audit reports 
that falsely stated the audits had been conducted in accordance with PCAOB standards. 
        
       D.     RESPONDENTS PREPARED CLIENT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
              FILED WITH THE COMMISSION IN VIOLATION OF AUDITOR 
              INDEPENDENCE REQUIREMENTS 
               
       1.     The Firm served as the independent public accountant for the financial 
statement audits of over 80 broker-dealer audit clients for the fiscal years ended January 1, 
2010 through December 31, 2012 (the “Relevant Period for Independence”).  In connection 
with at least one audit performed for each of these broker-dealer audit clients during the 
Relevant Period for Independence, Respondents prepared the financial statements and/or 
notes to the financial statements that were filed with the Commission under paragraph (d) 
of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 in violation of the Commission’s auditor independence 
regulations set forth in Rule 2-01(b) and (c) of Regulation S-X. 

                                            6 
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

         
        2.      For example, during the audit of Broker-Dealer B for the year ended May 
31, 2012, Respondents were provided with financial documents generated by Broker-
Dealer B.  Respondents reviewed and tested these documents, and the financial data 
contained therein, as part of the audit.  Respondents then utilized the information contained 
in these documents to create a set of financial statements to be filed with the Commission.  
In particular, Firm personnel working on Firm computers entered Broker-Dealer B’s 
financial data into the Firm’s engagement software and then used that engagement software 
to generate a new set of financial statements, including the notes to the financial statements, 
using the prior year’s financial statements as a template.  Respondents updated or revised 
the financial statements and notes to the financial statements as needed.  Respondents then 
provided the set of financial statements that Respondents had prepared to Broker-Dealer 
B’s management for approval. 
         
        3.      In July 2012, Broker-Dealer B filed with the Commission an annual report 
required under paragraph (d) of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 for the fiscal year ended May 31, 
2012.  Included in that filing is an audit report signed by the Firm and stating, among other 
things, that the Firm’s audit of Broker-Dealer B was conducted “in accordance with 
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.” 
 
        4.      Section 17(e)(1)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that every registered 
broker or dealer “shall annually file with the Commission a balance sheet and income 
statement certified by an independent public accounting firm, or by a registered public 
accounting firm if the firm is required to be registered under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002, prepared on a calendar or fiscal year basis, and such other financial statements 
(which shall, as the Commission specifies, be certified) and information concerning its 
financial condition as the Commission, by rule may prescribe as necessary or appropriate in 
the public interest or for the protection of investors.” 
         
        5.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(e)(1)(i) states: “An audit shall be conducted by a 
public accountant who shall be in fact independent as defined in paragraph (f)(3) of this 
section herein, and he shall give an opinion covering the statements filed pursuant to 
                    6
paragraph (d) . . . .”   Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(f)(3) further states that, for such audits, 
“[a]n accountant shall be independent in accordance with the provisions of Rule 2-01(b) 
and (c) of Regulation S-X.”  
         

                                                 
6
        The provisions of Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 referred to in paragraphs II.D.5 and 6 are those in effect 
        during, and applicable to, the Relevant Period for Independence.  On July 30, 2013, the Commission 
        adopted certain amendments to Rule 17a-5. See Broker-Dealer Reports, Exchange Act Release No. 
        34-70073 (July 30, 2013), 78 Fed. Reg. 51910 (Aug. 21, 2013).  Among other things, the 
        amendments to Rule 17a-5 require that audits of brokers and dealers be performed in accordance 
        with PCAOB standards, effective for audits of fiscal years ending on or after June 1, 2014.  The 
        auditor independence requirement of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X applied to broker-dealer audits 
        both before and after the July 30, 2013 amendments.  At the time of the Relevant Period for 
        Independence, prior to the amendments, that requirement was set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(3).  It is now 
        set out in Rule 17a-5(f)(1). 

                                               7 
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       6.      Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(g) requires that “[t]he audit shall be made in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards” and Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i) 
requires that “[t]he accountant’s report shall . . . [s]tate whether the audit was made in 
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.”  GAAS require auditors to 
maintain strict independence from their audit clients; an auditor “must be free from any 
obligation to or interest in the client, its management or its owners.”  See Statement on 
Auditing Standard No. 1, Section 220.03.  Accordingly, if an auditor’s report states that its 
audit was performed in accordance with GAAS when the auditor was not independent, then 
it has violated Exchange Act Rule 17a-5(i).  See In the Matter of Rosenberg Rich Baker 
Berman & Company and Brian Zucker, CPA, Exchange Act Release No. 69765 at p. 5 
(June 14, 2013).   
        
       7.      Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X provides that an accountant is not 
independent if, at any point during the audit and professional engagement period, the 
accountant provides prohibited non-audit services to an audit client.  Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of 
Regulation S-X provides that prohibited non-audit services include bookkeeping or other 
services related to the accounting records or financial statements of the audit client, and 
defines such services as:   
        
       Any service, unless it is reasonable to conclude that the results of these services will 
       not be subject to audit procedures during an audit of the audit client’s financial 
       statements, including: 

           (A) Maintaining or preparing the audit client’s accounting 
               records; 
                
           (B) Preparing the audit client’s financial statements that are 
               filed with the Commission or that form the basis of 
               financial statements filed with the Commission; or 
            
           (C) Preparing or originating source data underlying the audit 
               client’s financial statements. 
 
       8.      Rule 2-01(c)(4)(i) of Regulation S-X specifically prohibits an audit firm 
from preparing an audit client’s financial statements that are filed with the Commission.  
With respect to the audit of Broker-Dealer B described above, Respondents violated this 
rule by, among other things:  aggregating line items from internal books and records to the 
financial statements; changing line item descriptions; drafting or editing notes to the 
financial statements; and converting FOCUS reports or bookkeeping software program 
reports into financial statements. 
        
       9.      Respondents engaged in substantially similar conduct in connection with at 
least one audit for dozens of additional broker-dealer clients during the Relevant Period for 
Independence.   
        

                                             8 
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

        10.     As a result of Respondents’ conduct in preparing the financial statements, 
including the notes thereto, Respondents were not independent of their broker-dealer audit 
clients under the independence criteria established by Rule 2-01(c)(4) of Regulation S-X, 
which Exchange Act Rule 17a-5 makes applicable to the audits of broker-dealer financial 
statements.  As a result, each such broker-dealer client filed with the Commission financial 
statements that included an audit report that falsely stated the audit had been conducted in 
accordance with GAAS. 
 
        E.      VIOLATIONS 
 
        1.      As a result of the conduct described above, the Firm willfully violated, and 
Richardson willfully aided and abetted and caused the Firm’s violations of, Rule 2-02(b)(1) 
of Regulation S-X, which requires an accountant’s report to state whether the audit was 
                                                                     7
made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards.         
 
       2.      As a result of the conduct described above, the Firm willfully violated, and 
Richardson willfully aided and abetted and caused the Firm’s violations of, Exchange Act 
Rule 17a-5, which requires an accountant’s report to state (1) whether the audit was made 
                                         8
in accordance with PCAOB standards,        or (2) with respect to the Relevant Period for 
Independence, whether the au    dit w  as made in accordance with GAAS      . 
        
       3.      As a result of the conduct described above, the Firm and Richardson 
willfully aided and abetted and caused Issuer A to file with the Commission annual reports 
that contained false and misleading information in violation of Exchange Act Sections 
                                                                        9
13(a) and 15(d) and Rules 13a-1 and 15d-1 promulgated thereunder.         
         
       4.      As a result of the conduct described above, the Firm and Richardson 
willfully aided and abetted and caused dozens of broker-dealer audit clients to file with the 
Commission annual reports that were not audited by an independent accountant and/or that 
contained false and misleading information in violation of Exchange Act Section 17(a) and 
Rule 17a-5 promulgated thereunder. 
         

                                                 
7
        “[R]eferences in Commission rules and staff guidance and in the federal securities laws to GAAS 
or to specific standards under GAAS, as they relate to issuers, should be understood to mean the standards 
of the PCAOB plus any applicable rules of the Commission.”  See Commission Guidance Regarding the 
Public Company Oversight Board’s Auditing and Related Professional Practice Standard No. 1, SEC 
Exchange Act Release No. 34-49708 (May 14, 2004). 
 
8
        As part of the Rule 17a-5 amendments adopted by the Commission on July 30, 2013, see supra 
note 6, Rule 17a-5(i)(2)(i) was amended to state:  “The independent public accountant’s reports must . . . 
[s]tate whether the examinations or review, as applicable, were made in accordance with standards of the 
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.” 
 
9
        At the time Issuer A filed its Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, Issuer A had 
securities registered pursuant to Exchange Act Section 12(g) and therefore filed annual reports with the 
Commission pursuant to Exchange Act Section 13(a).  At the time Issuer A filed its Form 10-K for the year 
ended December 31, 2012, Issuer A was required to file annual reports with the Commission pursuant to 
Exchange Act Section 15(d).    

                                                9 
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       5.      Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice allows the Commission 
to censure a person or deny the privilege of appearing or practicing before it to any person 
if it finds that such person has engaged in “improper professional conduct” or has willfully 
violated or willfully aided and abetted the violation of any provision of the Federal 
securities laws.  Exchange Act §§ 4C(a)(2) and (3); Rules 102(e)(1)(ii) and (iii).  Rule 
102(e) defines improper professional conduct, in part, as either: 
        
       (1) A single instance of highly unreasonable conduct that results in a 
           violation of applicable professional standards in circumstances in which 
           the registered public accounting firm or associated person knows, or 
           should know, that heightened scrutiny is warranted.   
        
       (2) Repeated instances of unreasonable conduct, each resulting in a 
           violation of applicable professional standards, that indicate a lack of 
           competence to practice before the Commission. 
          
Exchange Act § 4C(b)(2); Rule 102(e)(1)(iv)(B).  
        
       6.      Questions regarding an auditor’s independence always warrant heightened 
scrutiny.  See Amendment to Rule 102(e) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 63 Fed. 
Reg. 57164, 57168 (Oct. 26, 1998) (codified at 17 C.F.R. Part 201).  The Commission has 
defined the “highly unreasonable” standard as: 
        
           an intermediate standard, higher than ordinary negligence but lower than 
           the traditional definition of recklessness used in cases brought under 
           Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 of the Exchange Act.  
           The highly unreasonable standard is an objective standard. The conduct 
           at issue is measured by the degree of the departure from professional 
           standards and not the intent of the accountant.   
 
Id. at 57,167. 
        
       7.      As a result of the conduct described above, the Firm and Richardson 
engaged in improper professional conduct subject to Section 4C(a)(2) of the Exchange 
Act and the Commission’s Rules of Practice 102(e)(1)(ii). 
        
       8.      As a result of the conduct described above, the Firm and Richardson 
willfully violated and/or willfully aided and abetted violations of the federal securities 
laws, which constitute conduct subject to Section 4C(a)(3) of the Exchange Act and the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice 102(e)(1)(iii). 
 
                                            III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission 
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and 
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine: 

                                            10 
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

        
       A.      Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in 
connection therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such 
allegations; 
         
       B.      Whether, pursuant to Section 4C of the Exchange Act and Rule 102(e) of 
the Commission’s Rules of Practice, Respondents should be censured or denied, 
temporarily or permanently, the privilege of appearing or practicing before the 
Commission as accountants; 
        
       C.      Whether, pursuant to Section 21C of the Exchange Act, Respondents should 
be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future 
violations of Sections 13(a), 15(d), and 17(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 15d-1, 
and 17a-5 promulgated thereunder and Rule 2-02(b)(1) of Regulation S-X, whether 
Respondents should be ordered to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Section 21B(a) of the 
Exchange Act, and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay disgorgement pursuant to 
Sections 21B(e) and 21C(e) of the Exchange Act. 
        
                                           IV. 
 
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for purposes of taking evidence on the 
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not 
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed and before an 
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondents shall file an Answer to the 
allegations contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as 
provided by Rule 220 of the Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220. 
        
       If Respondents fail to file the directed answer, or fail to appear at a hearing after 
being duly notified, Respondents may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be 
determined against them upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be 
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310. 
 
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
 
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that, pursuant to Rule 360(a)(2) of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.360(a)(2), the Administrative Law 
Judge shall issue an initial decision no later than 120 days from the occurrence of one of 
the following events:  (A) The completion of post-hearing briefing in a proceeding where 
the hearing has been completed; (B) Where the hearing officer has determined that no 
hearing is necessary, upon completion of briefing on a motion pursuant to Rule 250 of the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.250; or (C) The determination by the 

                                            11 
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

hearing officer that a party is deemed to be in default under Rule 155 of the Commission’s 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.155, and no hearing is necessary.   
        
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, 
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is 
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it 
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any 
final Commission action. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                              Brent J. Fields 
                                                              Secretary 
  
 
 

                                             12 
 
