---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED    STATES    DISTRICT    COURT
 
                          SOUTHERN      DISTRICT    OF  NEW   YORK
 

                                                          )
UNITED    STATES    SECURITIES                            )
AND  EXCHANGE       COMMISSION,                           )
                                                          )
                                     Plaintiff,           )
                                                          )       CIVIL ACTION  NO.     __
 
                      v.                                   )
                                                           )      COMPLAINT
 
MEDQUIST     INC. ,                                        )
                                                           )
                                     Defendant.            )
                                                           )
 
-----------------) 

       The Securities  and Exchange  Commission  ("Comrirission")  alleges the following  against 

Defendant  MedQuist  Inc. ("MedQuist" or "Company"): 

                              SUMMARY       OF ALLEGATIONS 

       1.      From  1999 until 2004, Defendant  ("MedQuist" or ''the Company"),  a New Jersey-

based medical  transcription  company,  claimed in SEC filings, press releases  and earnings  calls that 

the Company's  strong financial performance  was due to its disciplined  and conservative  business 

practices,  while at the same time it was systematically  and secretly inflating  customer bills  to 

increase revenues and profit margins.  Beginning in about 1999, Defendant  fraudulently  overbilled 

customers by inflating the number oflinesofmedical test it purportedly transcribed. Thescheme 

was able to continue  for several years because the unit ofmeasure  upon which bills to many 

customers  were based-known   as an "AAMT"   line--included invisible characters and computer 

keystrokes  that could not be verified by customers.  Knowing  that its customers  were unable to 

verify line counts on bills, the Company  stopped actually counting AAMTlines and secretly used 

formulas  to manipulate  line counts on customer bills to reach specific revenue  and margin targets. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       2.      Defendant misled customers and independent auditors into believing that the 

Company's bills were based  on AAMT line counts as required   by customer contracts.  At the same 

time, Defendant misled shareholders and the public by stating in Commission filings, press releases 

and earnings calls, that the Company's  revenues were based primarily on contracted rates and that 

its strong financial perfonnance was the result ofconservative and disciplined business practices. 

       3.      As disclosed in Defendant's  filings with the Commission,  since the billing  scheme 

came to light in 2004, Defendant  approved payment   of$75.8   million in cash and credits  to 

customers  to resolve billing disputes  arising from the conduct  described herein.  Defendant  also 

paid $7.5 million to settle a customer  class action lawsuit (Steiner v. MedOuist  Inc., No.  1:04-cv­

05487-FLW  (D.N.J.  filed Nov.  8,2004)  and paid $6.6 million  to settle claims of various  agencies 

and departments  of the United States Government.  In addition,  Defendant restated  its financials 

for the period ofthe conduct with a $9.8 reduction  in revenue. 

                                          VIOLATIONS 

        4.     By  engaging in the conduct described below, Defendant violated Section 17(a)  of 

the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act") and Sections 1O(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 

13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act  of1934 ("Exchange Act") and Rules lOb-5, 12b-20, 

13a-l, 13a-ll, and 13a-13 [15 U.S.C. §§77q(a),  78j(b), 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B) 

and 17 C.F.R.  §§ 240.10b-5, 204.12b-20, 204.13a-l, 240.1  3a-ll, and 240.13a-13]. 

                                 JURISDICTION  AND        VENUE 

        5.     The Commission brings this action pursuant to Sections 20(b), 20(d),  and 20( e) of 

the Securities Act and Sections 21(d) and 21(e) ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 77t(b), 77t(d), 

                                                 2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

77t(e),  78u(d), and 78u(e)], seeking a judgment permanently restraining and enjoining the 

Defendant  from further violations ofthe relevant provisions of the securities laws. 

       6.      The Court has jurisdiction  over this action pursuant to Sections 20(b), 20(d), 20(e) 

and 22 of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 77t(b), 77t(d), 77t(e) and 77v] and Sections 21(d), 21(e), 

and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa].  Venue is proper under 

Section 22 of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77v] and Section 27  ofthe Exchange   Act [15 U.S.C.  § 

78aa]. 

        7.     Defendant, directly or indirectly, made use of the means and instrumentalities of 

interstate  commerce, ofthe mails, orof the facilities ofa national  securities exchange inconnection 

with the acts, practices, and courses ofbusiness alleged herein.  Certain ofthese transactions,  acts, 

practices and courses of business occurred in the Southern District ofNew   York, including,  among 

other things, public sales ofMedQuist  stock on the NASDAQ  stock market based in     New  York 

City. 

                                          DEFENDANTS 

        8.      MedQuist  Inc. is a New Jersey corporation headquartered  in Marlton,   New  Jersey. 

MedQuist's  stock is currently registered pursuant to Section 12(b) ofthe Exchange Act.   It was 

previously registered under Section 12(g) and traded on the NASDAQ National  Market until it was 

delisted on June 16,2004.  For four years, MedQuist traded   on the Pink Sheets.  On July 17, 2008, 

MedQuist  began trading on the NASDAQ  Global Market. 

                                                  3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                                    STATEMENT  OF FACTS
 

                                            Background
 

       9.      Defendant perfonns  medical transcription services by receiving  dictated medical 

records from customers, usually hospitals, and keying them into computer programs called 

transcription  platfonns.  Defendant has contracts with its customers governing how it will measure 

and bill the work.  Each contract specifies the unit Defendant uses to measure the work (such  as 

word, line, orreport),  the definition ofthe unit ofmeasure (such as how many   characters constitute 

a "line"),  and the price per unit. The contracts require that Defendant bill the customer an amount 

equal to the number  of units transcribed multiplied by the price per unit. 

        10.     From 1998 to 2006, many    ofDefendant's  contracts required it to use a unit of 

measure  called theAAMT     line.  Defendant's  contracts defined an AAMT line  as follows: 

        any line having 65 'characters,'  [where a] character is defined as any letter, number, 
        symbol  or function key necessary for the final appearance and content  ofa 
        document  including, without limitation, the space bar, carriage return, underscore, 
        bold, and any character contained within the macro, header, or footer. A defined line 
        is calculated by counting all characters contained within a document and simply 
        dividing the total number of characters by 65 to arrive at the number of defined 
        lines. 

(emphasis  added). 

        11.     Because Defendant's  contracts specifically stated that AAMT   lines would  be 

calculated by "counting  all characters" and "simply dividing ... by 65", Defendant  was  required to 

count AAMT    characters in order to bill in accordance with contracts. 

                                                  4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

        12.    Because AAMT lines include invisible characters and fonnatting  codes peculiar to 

the transcription platfonns, Defendant's  customers could not independently verify the AAMT line 

totals in their bills by looking at their transcribed documents. 

        13.    Defendant calculated transcriptionist pay by  a unit ofmeasure called a "payroll 

line," which was not equal to an AAMT line. 

        14.    By  1999, Defendant stopped actual counting   of AAMT characters and lines.    It 

derived the number  of AAMT lines billed to customers   by  applying multiples to the number  of 

payroll lines in the customer's  work. 

        15.    By  1999, Defendant adopted an internal policy stating that for any piece of 

transcription  work, a purportedly "correct" AAMT line count equaled two times the number     of 

payroll lines, and should result in the customer being billed $3.00 for every $1.00 paid to the 

transcriptionist.  Defendant adjusted line count multiples on customer accounts  to reach its desired 

revenue and margin targets.  Defendant monitored the effect   of changes to line count multiples to 

ensure that it met its revenue and margin targets. 

        16.     Defendant did not tell customers or shareholders about its change in billing 

methodology.  Because the changed methodology had the potential to increase billed line counts 

enough to  be noticed by customers, Defendant increased the line count multiples   ofsome   customers 

gradually over time and sometimes secretly increased a customer's  line multiple after agreeing to a 

decrease in line price, in order to maintain revenues and profit margins. Defendant continued  to 

secretly adjust line count ratios until 2004 or later. 

                                                  5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        17.    Defendant's  revised billing methodology resulted in overbilling customers as 

compared to the AAMT line counting methodology called for      in Defendant's  contracts. 

        18.    From at least December 2000 through 2003, Defendant prepared internal reports     on 

billing practices at Company offices.  These reports examined the line count multiples and profit 

margins for each customer account.  These reports showed that many line count multiples were set 

higher than the purportedly "correct" setting oftwice the number  ofpayroll lines.  Some ofthe 

reports explicitly recommended  that offices secretly or gradually increase line count multiples in 

order to improve profit margins, and that offices set customer accounts on the AAMT unit    of 

measure  in order to improve management's  ability to manipulate line counts and margins.  These 

reports also  recommended that the offices exercise care in making changes because   many  clients 

pay close attention to bills.  The result ofthese recommendations  was that customers were billed 

more that they would have been billed had the Company actually counted AAMT lines        in 

accordance with contract terms. 

        19.    Defendant knew that certain customers, including many who had left MedQuist for 

other transcription providers, complained of billing irregularities, unjustifiable bill totals, and 

billing fraud on the part of the Company. 

        20.    Defendant received allegations  of billing fraud from at least two ofits employees in 

2002 and 2003.  One   of those employees, a vice president, subsequently refused to sign internal 

sub-certifications ofaccounts.  Defendant did not investigate or correct its calculation ofline counts 

on bills in response to these employee allegations. 

                                                  6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

        21.     By 2003, Defendant knew from its internal reports on billing practices that at least 

some offices lacked audit trails and adequate internal controls  on changes to line count multiples 

and had increased line count multiples without any documentary support. 

        22.   . Defendant knew   or was reckless  in not knowing  of repeated customer  and employee 

complaints  ofhigh line counts, ratio manipulations, and other billing irregularities from  1999 

through 2003.  Defendant failed to audit the accuracy  ofline  counts anywhere at the Company  and 

failed to test or implement  internal controls on billing. 

        23.     Defendant also undemrined the efforts   of the Company's  external auditors with 

misrepresentations.  Its officials told the external auditors, incorrectly, that a MedQuist transcription 

platform  actually counted AAMT lines.  The auditors unwittingly used this platform    to check 

AAMT    line counts derived by  multiples on other platforms.  Because  of Defendant's  deception, the 

auditors never knew that the platform used to test AAMT counts did not     in fact count AAMT, but 

rather used multiples to calculate billed lines from transcriptionist paid lines. 

        24.     Defendant knew,    or was reckless in not knowing, that the Company's  external 

auditors believed incorrectly that Company transcription platforms actually counted    AAMT 

characters  and lines, and that the auditors relied onthat incorrect beliefinperforming their audits. 

Defendant  failed to tell its external auditors that no Company transcription platforms actually 

counted AAMT characters and lines.  Defendant knew that      it had inadequate controls on  its billing 

processes, but did not tell its external auditors.  Defendant knew that it manipulated line counts to 

reach revenue and margin targets   but did not tell its external auditors.  Defendant knew that 

customers  had complained   of billing irregularities and fraud but did not tell its auditors ofthese 

                                                   7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 complaints.  Defendant knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that these omitted disclosures were 

 material to the auditors'  work and public statements about the Company. 

        25.     From 1999 through 2003, Defendant told shareholders and other public investors 

. that its strong financial performance was due to disciplined and conservative business practices and 

 that revenues  were based primarily on contracted rates.  During the time period when these 

 representations  were made, Defendant was secretly not billing in accordance with contracts and was 

 manipulating  billed line  counts to reach desired revenue and margin targets.  Defendant knew, or 

 was reckless in not knowing, that these  statements and omissions were misleading  and material in 

 that a reasonable  investor would consider them important to his investment decisions about the 

 Company.  Defendant made these material misleading statements and omissions  in periodic  filings 

 with the Commission,  other filings with the Commission,  and quarterly investor  conference calls. 

                                   FIRST   CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

                        Violations of the Antifraud  Provisions Contained in
 
                                 Section 17(a)  of the Securities Act
 

         26.    The Commission  realleges and incorporates   by reference every allegation contained 

 in paragraphs  1 through 25 herein. 

         27.    By  reason of the foregoing, Defendant, directly or indirectly, singly or in concert, by 

 use of the means or instruments  oftransportation or communication in interstate commerce or   by 

 the use ofthe mails, inthe offer orsale of securities:  (a) knowingly or recklessly employed devices, 

 schemes and artifices to defraud; (b) obtained money or property  by means  of untrue statements of 

 material  fact or omissions to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in 

 the light ofthe circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and/or (c) engaged in 

                                                   8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

transactions,  practices or courses ofbusiness which operated or would operate as a fraud or deceit 

upon the purchasers ofMedQuist    securities and upon other persons, in violations of Section  17(a) 

ofthe Securities Act [15 U.S.c. §§ 77q(a)]. 

                                SECOND  CLAIM  FOR RELIEF 

                             Violations  of the Antifraud  Provisions
 
                Contained  in Section 10(b)  of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5
 

       28.     The Commission  realleges and incorporates   by reference every allegation contained 

in paragraphs  1 through 25 herein. 

       29.     By  reason of the foregoing, Defendant, directly orindirectly, singly or in concert, by 

use ofthe means  or instrwnentalities ofinterstate commerce  or ofthe mails, knowingly  or . 

recklessly, in connection with the purchase or sale ofsecurities:  (a) employed devices, schemes 

and artifices to defraud; (b) made untrue statements ofmaterial fact, or omitted to state material 

facts necessary in order to make statements made, in light ofthe circumstances under  which they 

were made, not misleading;  and/or (c) engaged in acts, practices  and courses ofbusiness  which 

operated or would have operated as a fraud  or deceit upon purchasers ofMedQuist securities  and 

upon other persons, in violations of Section lO(b) ofthe Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5 [15 U.S.C. 

§ 78j(b) and 17 C.F.R. 240.l0b-5]. 

                                 THIRD    CLAIM     FOR RELIEF 

                      Violations  of the Reporting  Provisions  Contained   in
 
        Section  13(a) ofthe Exchange  Act and Rules 12b-20,  13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13
 

        30.    The Commission  realleges and incorporates   by reference every allegation contained 

in paragraphs  1 through 25 herein. 

                                                  9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       31.     By reason of the foregoing, Defendant failed to file with the Commission such 

financial reports as the Commission has prescribed, and failed to include, in addition to the 

infonnation  expressly required to be stated in such reports, such further material information as was 

necessary to make the statements made therein, in light ofthe circumstances in which they were 

made, not misleading, in violation of Section 13(a) ofthe Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-l, 

13a-ll, and 13a-13 [15 U.S.C.  § 78m(a) and 17 C.F.R.  §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-l, 240.13a-l1, and 

240.13a-13]. 

                                FORTH     CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

             Violations of the Books and Records and Internal Control Provisions
 
       Contained  in Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B)   of the Securities Exchange Act
 

       32.     The Commission realleges and incorporates   by reference every allegation contained 

in paragraphs 1 through 25 herein. 

       33.      By reason of the foregoing, Defendant failed to: 

               a.      make and keep books, records, and accounts, which   in reasonable detail, 

        accurately and fairly reflected the transactions and dispositions ofits assets; 

               b.      devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls sufficient to 

       provide reasonable assurances that: 

                       1.     transactions were executed  in accordance with management's 

               general or specific authorizations; 

                                                10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

                       11.     transactions were recorded as necessary to pennit preparation  of 

               financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles  or 

               any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain acco~tability for 

               assets; 

                       iii.    access to assets was permitted only in accordance with 

               management's  general or specific authorization;  and 

                       iv.     the recorded accountability for assets was compared  with the 

               existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate action was taken with respect 

               to any differences; 

in violation ofSections  13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 

78m(b)(2)(A),  and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF
 

       WHEREFORE,         the Commission  respectfully requests that this Court
 

               (a)     permanently restrain and enjoin Defendant  and its agents, servants, 

employees,  attorneys-in-fact, and assigns and those persons in active concert or participation  with 

them, and each  ofthem, from further violations of the relevant provisions of the securities laws; and 

                                                 11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

              (d)    grant such other relief as the Court deems just and proper. 

Dated:  March  12, 2009                    Respectfully  submitted, 

                                                      ers (     5) 
                                           SEC      IES AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION 
                                           100 F  treet, NE 
                                           Washington, DC  20549 
                                           Tel. (202) 551-4645 
                                           Bowers]@sec.gov 

                                           Attorney for Plaintiff 

Of Counsel: 

Gerald W. Hodgkins 
Moira T. Roberts 
Sharan K.S. Custer 
SECURITIES  AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION 
100 F Street, NE 
Washington, DC  20549 

                                             12
 
