---------------------Page 1---------------------

                     UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT  
                    FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION 

                          Plaintiff, 
                                                      Civil Action No. 
             v. 

DAVID ERIC NESVISKY, 

                          Defendant. 

                                 COMPLAINT 

      Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") alleges: 

                                  SUMMARY 

      1.     In the third quarter of 2003, Quovadx, Inc. ("Quovadx" or the 

"Company"), a Colorado-based software company, fraudulently recognized 

approximately $380,000 in revenue from three purported sales of software licenses to one 

of its resellers, MicroStar, Inc. ("MicroStar"), an Ohio company that sells software 

licenses and maintenance services to the healthcare industry. These purported sales were 

part of a parking arrangement designed to accelerate revenue recognition for Quovadx 

from transactions that Quovadx was in the process of negotiating with other customers 

but had been unable to finalize before the end of the quarter. MicroStar had neither the 

ability nor the intent to pay for the licenses unless and until Quovadx found customers to 

buy the licenses. As a result, Quovadx improperly recognized approximately $380,000 in 

revenue from the purported sales to MicroStar and materially overstated its software 

licensing revenue by approximately 14%for the third quarter of 2003. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       2.     Defendant David Nesvisky ("Nesvisky") was Quovadx's Executive Vice 

President of Sales during the relevant time.  Nesvisky reported directly to Quovadx's 

President and CEO. Nesvisky proposed parking the software licenses with MicroStar in 

order to accelerate Quovadx's recognition of revenue from the sale of those licenses and 

participated in structuring the parking arrangement. Quovadx's President and CEO 

approved this parking arrangement, which resulted in the fraudulent recognition of 

revenue. Nesvisky subsequently participated in a plan to channel an unrelated payment 

which created the appearance that MicroStar had partially paid for its "purchases." 

Nesvisky also signed an annual management representation letter that failed to disclose 

the true facts and circumstances of the MicroStar transactions to Quovadx's auditor. 

       3.     By the conduct described below, Nesvisky violated, or aided and abetted 

violations of, the antifraud, reporting, books and records, and internal controls provisions 

of the federal securities laws. Unless enjoined by order of ths  Court, Nesvisky is likely 

to commit such violations in the future. The Commission seeks a judgment permanently 

enjoining the defendant from fbrther securities law violations and imposing civil 

monetary penalties. 

                                   JURISDICTON 

       4.     This Court has jurisdiction pursuant to Section 22 of the Securities Act of 

1933 ("Securities Act") [15 U.S.C. 8 77v(a)] and Sections 21 and 27 of the Securities 

Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") [15 U.S.C.   $8 78u and 78aal. 

       5.     Nesvisky, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or 

instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or of the mails, in connection with the 

transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business described in this Complaint, certain 

of which have occurred within ths judicial district. 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                THE DEFENDANT 

       6.    While employed at Quovadx, David Nesvisky, age 45, resided in 

Englewood, Colorado. He currently resides in North Carolina. He was executive vice 

president of sales at Quovadx from approximately March 2002 until May 2004. 

                               RELATED ENTITY 

       7.     Quovadx, a Delaware corporation based in Englewood, Colorado, is a 

software company that licenses software and sells related services to the healthcare 

industry. Quovadx's stock was registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of 

the Exchange Act and traded on the NASDAQ National Market. During 2002 and 2003, 

Quovadx derived about one-thrd of its reported revenue from software licensing fees, 

with the rest coming from software maintenance and service contracts. Quovadx 

separately reported its software licensing revenue, which included sales of both software 

and licenses. During the relevant period, Quovadx had a continuously effective offering 

of securities pursuant to Form S-8. It also registered an offer of securities pursuant to 

Form S-4 in the fourth quarter of 2003. 

                   RELEVANT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

       8.     As a public company, Quovadx was required to file quarterly and annual 

reports with the Commission that presented its financial results in conformity with 

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). The American Institute of 

Certified Public Accountants' Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition 

("SOP 97-2") and related interpretations are the principal GAAP provisions governing 

the recognition of revenue for sales of software and software licenses. 

       9.     Under SOP 97-2, a company may not recognize revenue from a software 

license sale unless and until there is: persuasive evidence of an arrangement; delivery of 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

the software; a fixed or determinable seller's fee; and a reasonable probability of 

collecting the accounts receivable. Further, if payment is substantially contingent on the 

buyer's success in distributing the product to the customer, either due to the terms of the 

deal or because the buyer is so undercapitalized that it cannot pay until it sells the 

product, the seller may not recognize the software license revenue at the time of sale. In 

its financial reports filed with the Commission, Quovadx claimed that it had recognized 

revenue in accordance with GAAP. 

                            FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 

       10.    In late September 2003, Nesvisky learned fiom his sales staffthat 

transactions Quovadx had been negotiating with three customers were not likely to close 

until the fourth quarter. Nesvisky asked his sales staff to find other Quovadx customers 

who might be willing to hold the software products in their inventory pending resale to 

these three customers. One of his salespersons contacted the president of MicroStar, who 

agreed to this arrangement. Nesvisky proposed this parking arrangement to Quovadx's 

then President and CEO. Quovadx's President and CEO approved this arrangement, 

stating to Nesvisky in an e-mail that: "We need $8m, so let's get it done. We're too close 

to miss the q." 

       11.    Thereafter, Quovadx entered into three separate software license purchase 

contracts with MicroStar. Nesvisky's sales staff also reached a verbal side-agreement 

with MicroStar whereby MicroStar would not have to pay Quovadx unless and until the 

customers with whom Quovadx had been negotiating bought the software fiom 

MicroStar or Quovadx found other customers for MicroStar. Despite the material 

contingency embodied in the verbal side-agreement with MicroStar, Quovadx treated the 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

MicroStar contracts as bona fide sales agreements and recorded approximately $380,000 

of revenue in the thrd  quarter. 

       12.    Shortly after Quovadx filed its quarterly report, Nesvisky and others 

learned that MicroStar had not paid for any of the software licenses because the 

anticipated customers had declined to buy the licenses from MicroStar. Quovadx did not 

reverse the revenue. Instead, with the approval of members of Quovadx's senior 

management, Nesvisky directed Quovadx's sales staff to find alternative customers to 

buy the software licenses from MicroStar. Quovadx's sales staff was unable to find other 

buyers. 

       13.    In December 2003, Nesvisky learned that one of the three anticipated 

customers had purchased different software licenses for approximately $257,000 from a 

Quovadx subsidiary in the United Kingdom. Nesvisky conferred with Quovadx's then 

controller and they determined to apply the customer's payment against Microstar's 

outstanding account receivable. When the customer made the payment in February 2004 

to Quovadx's U.K. subsidiary, the U.K. subsidiary reversed the transaction between it 

and the customer from its books and sent the approximately $257,000 to Quovadx's U.S. 

offices. Then, with Nesvisky's knowledge and participation, Quovadx wired this money 

to MicroStar with the instruction that MicroStar wire it back to Quovadx, less $10,000 as 

payment to MicroStar for holding the licenses. MicroStar complied with the instructions. 

By channeling the payment through MicroStar, Quovadx created the false appearance 

that MicroStar had paid a significant portion of what it owed. At Nesvisky's direction, 

Quovadx's employees continued to search for additional opportunities to channel 

software license sales through MicroStar to eliminate the remaining balance. 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       14.    On or about February 9,2004, in conjunction with the audit of Quovadx's 

annual report for 2003, Nesvisky signed a management representation letter to Quovadx's 

auditor. In the letter, Nesvisky represented that Quovadx's written sales agreements 

constituted the totality of the arrangements with Quovadx's customers and that there were 

no side-agreements. 

       15.    In August 2004, after Quovadx terminated Nesvisky's employment, 

Quovadx reversed all three of the purported software license sales to MicroStar. 

                           FIRST   CLAIM    FOR RELIEF 
      Violations of Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 8 77q(a)(3)] 

       16.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 15 above. 

       17.    Section 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act prohibits a person fiom engaging in 

any transaction, practice, or course of business which would operate as a fiaud or deceit 

upon a purchaser in the offer or sale of any securities. One of the ways a person violates 

Section 17(a)(3) is to engage in transactions, practices or courses of business that result in 

materially false or misleading statements or material omissions in Commission filings or in 

other statements disseminated to investors. 

       18.    Nesvisky proposed and structured the parking arrangement between 

Quovadx and MicroStar in the third quarter of 2003. The arrangement had no legitimate 

business purpose and MicroStar would not pay for the software licenses unless it could 

resell them to customers identified by Quovadx. Further, at Nesvisky's suggestion and with 

his involvement, Quovadx heled   an unrelated payment through MicroStar that made it 

appear that MicroStar had partially paid for the licenses. 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

       19.   By engaging in the conduct described above, Nesvisky violated Section 

17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. 

                         SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
          Violation of Exchange Act Rule 1382-2 117 C.F.R.  5 240.13b2-21  

      20.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 19 above. 

       21.   Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2 prohibits any director or officer of an issuer fiom 

directly or indirectly making or causing to be made misleading statements to an accountant 

in connection with an audit. 

       22.   Nesvisky made materially false or misleading statements and omitted to 

disclose material information to Quovadx's auditor in the management representation letter 

he signed on February 9,2004.  Contrary to his representations in the letter, Nesvisky knew 

(1) that a substantial portion of the MicroStar receivable was to be paid with proceeds fi-om 

an unrelated transaction and (2) that any Mer   payment for the third quarter "purchases" 

depended upon Quovadx  identifying customers to purchase the software licenses fiom 

MicroStar. 

       23.    By reason of the foregoing, Nesvisky violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2. 

                          THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
    Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  
       §78m(a)] and Rules 12b-20,13a-11 and 13a-13 [17 C.F.R   $5 240.12b-20,  
                                 13a-11 and 13a-131  

       24.    The Commission realleges and incorporates by herein by reference 

paragraphs 1 through 23 above. 

       25.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-11, and 13a-13 

thereunder require that issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the 

Exchange Act, such as Quovadx, file periodic reports with the Commission that are 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

complete and accurate in all material respects. Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 requires that, in 

addition to the information expressly required to be included in a statement or report, an 

issuer must add such further material information, if any, as may be necessary to make the 

required statements, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not 

misleading. 

       26.    Quovadx materially overstated its software licensing revenue in the third 

quarter of 2003 by improperly recognizing revenue from the three purported sales of 

software licenses to MicroStar. As a result, Quovadx's quarterly report for the third 

quarter of 2003 and the earning release attached to its Form 8-K for that quarter 

contained materially inaccurate and misleading statements. By proposing and structuring 

the parking arrangement between Quovadx and MicroStar in the third quarter of 2003 

and channeling an unrelated payment through MicroStar that made it appear that 

MicroStar had partially paid for the licenses, Nesvisky knowingly provided substantial 

assistance to Quovadx in its violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 

12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a- 13 thereunder. 

       27.    By reason of the foregoing, Nesvisky aided and abetted Quovadx's 

violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a- 1 1 and 13a-13 

thereunder 

                         FOURTH CLAIM FOR          RELIEF  
       Aiding and Abetting Violations of Sections 13@)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B)  
         of the Exchange Act  [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m@)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)]  

       28.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 27 above. 

       29.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that issuers with securities 

registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as Quovadx, make and keep books, 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

records, and accounts that accurately and fairly represent the transactions of the company. 

Section 13@)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a system of 

internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among other 

things, transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in 

 conformity with GAAP and to maintain accountability of assets. 

        30.    Quovadx's books and records were materially inaccurate during the relevant 

 time period because they overstated sohare  licensing revenue and did not accurately or 

 fairly reflect the transactions of the company. Quovadx also failed to maintain internal 

 controls sufficient to ensure that revenue recognition would occur properly and that its 

 financial statements would be prepared in conformity with GAAP. Accordingly, Quovadx 
\ 
 violated Sections 13@)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

        3 1.   By proposing and structuring the parking arrangement between Quovadx 

 and MicroStar in the third quarter of 2003 and channeling an unrelated payment through 

 MicroStar that made it appear that MicroStar had partially paid for the licenses, Nesvisky 

 knowingly provided substantial assistance to Quovadx in its violations of Sections 

 13@)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

        32.    By reason of the foregoing, Nesvisky aided and abetted Quovadx's  

 violations of Sections 13@)(2)(A) and 13@)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act.  
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                              PRAYER FOR RELIEF 

       The Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final judgment 

against Defendant Nesvisky: 

       A.     finding that Defendant Nesvisky committed the violations alleged above; 

       B.     permanently enjoining Defendant Nesvisky from: violating Section 

17(a)(3) of the Securities Act 115 U.S.C. 5 77q(a)(3)]; violating or aiding and abetting 

violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2 [17 C.F.R. 5 240.13b2-21; and aiding and abetting 

violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 

fj 5 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)] and Rules 12b-20,   13a- 1 1, and 13a- 13 

thereunder [17 C.F.R. $8 240.12b-20,13a-11 and 13a-131; 

       C.     ordering Defendant Nesvisky to pay an appropriate civil penalty pursuant 

to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 5 77(t)(d)] and Section 21(d)(3) of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 5 78(u)(d)(3)]; 

       D.     retaining jurisdiction over ths  action to implement and carry out the terms 

of all orders and decrees that may be entered; and 

       E.     granting such other and additional relief as this Court deems just and 

proper. 
       h 
~ated:A-$  17  ,2007 
                                          Richard E. Simpsonf 
                                          Thomas W. Peirce 

                                          Attorneys for Plaintiff 
                                          Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                          100 F. Street N.E. 
                                          Washington, DC 20549 
                                          (202) 55 1-4492 (Simpson) 
