---------------------Page 1---------------------

Richard E. Simpson RS5859 
Thomas W. Peirce 
Attorneys for Plaintiff 
SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, D.C. 20549-4030 
(202) 55 1-4492 (Simpson) 
(202) 772-9246 (Fax) 

                       UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT  
                            DISTRICT OF COLORADO  

SECURITIES  AND  EXCHANGE COMMISSION, 

                                   Plaintiff, 

                      v. 
                                                 : Civ. No. 
LORINE SWEENEY and 
GARY THOMAS SCHEWING, 

                                 Defendants. 

                    COMPLAINT FOR INJUNCTIVE RELIEF,  
             DISGORGEMENT AND PENALTIES, FOR VIOLATIONS  
                     OF THE FEDERAL SECURITIES LAWS  
                        AND DEMAND FOR JURY TRIAL  

      Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission alleges as follows against the above- 

named defendants: 

                         SUMMARY OF ALLEGATIONS 

      1.    Ths is a financial fraud case. Between the second and fourth quarters of 2003, a 

publicly traded corporation named Quovadx, Inc., in an attempt to meet aggressive goals set by 

its senior management, fi-audulently recognized over $12 million in software licensing revenue 

fi-om transactions with three different customers, overstating its software licensing revenue by 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

proportions ranging fiom approximately 9 percent to nearly 180 percent. Defendants Lorine 

Sweeney, the then-President and Chief Executive Officer of Quovadx, and Gary Thomas 

Scherping, the then-Chief Financial Officer, knew or were reckless in not knowing that Quovadx 

could not recognize the revenue in each of these transactions. Further, Quovadx improperly 

accelerated $250,000 in software licensing revenue into the third quarter of 2002, overstating its 

software licensing revenue by 10 percent for that quarter. Sweeney and Scherping knowingly 

provided substantial assistance to Quovadx in improperly accelerating this revenue. In total, 

Quovadx improperly recognized more than $12 million in software licensing revenue in 2002 

and 2003. 

       2.     In particular, in the second quarter of 2003, Quovadx fraudulently overstated its 

software licensing revenue by approximately 9 percent by recognizing $570,000 in revenue from 

a purported sale of software licenses to Sourceworks LLC, a shell corporation created to enter 

into the transaction. Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that 

Sourceworks' payment of the purchase price was contingent on Quovadx providing an end-user 

contract for Sourceworks and that Sourceworks could not pay for the software licenses itself. 

       3.     In the third quarter of 2003, Quovadx fraudulently recognized $380,000 in 

software licensing revenue on three purported sales to a company named MicroStar, Inc., thereby 

causing Quovadx's software licensing revenue to be overstated by 14 percent.  Sweeney and 

Scherping knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that the transactions with MicroStar were 

parking arrangements designed to accelerate revenue recognition fiom other deals that Quovadx 

could not close by the end of the quarter. 

       4.     In the third and fourth quarters of 2003, Quovadx fkaudulently recognized a total 

of $11.1 million in revenue fiom a series of transactions with an Indian company, Infotech 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

Network Group, even though the sales to Infotech were based on undisclosed material 

contingencies and payment was not probable. Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless in 

not knowing, about the contingencies and the improbability of payment, but nevertheless 

approved the recognition of $4.6 million of this revenue in the third quarter. In the fourth 

quarter, Sweeney and Scherping approved the recognition of an additional $6.5 million in 

software licensing revenue after having sent Infotech a default letter for its failure to pay for the 

third quarter transactions and having Quovadx send $500,000 to Infotech to induce this 

bbpurchase." 

       5.     On March 15,2004, when it could not collect payment fiom Infotech for the 

transactions it had previously booked as revenue, Quovadx announced that it would restate its 

prior results to decrease revenue by approximately $11 million. After announcement of the 

restatement, the price of Quovadx stock dropped 29 percent, fiom $5.03 to $3.58 per share. The 

company's audit committee retained outside counsel to conduct an internal investigation. 

Shortly thereafter, Sweeney and Scherping resigned. 

       6.     On May 13,2004, Quovadx announced that, as a result of its investigation, it was 

reviewing two additional contracts -whch proved later to be the Sourceworks and MicroStar 

transactions -and that it had discontinued severance payments to Sweeney and Scherping and 

demanded that they return previous severance payments and other compensation. The share 

price dropped approximately 37 percent, fiom $2.05 to $1.29 per share, after this announcement. 

On August 16,2004, the company filed an amended Form 10-K for 2003 restating its financial 

results to reverse the revenue fiom the Sourceworks and MicroStar transactions and from the 

improper transaction in the third quarter of 2002. The stock dropped four cents, to $1.65 per 

share. 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       7.     Sweeney and Scherping engaged in fraudulent misconduct in connection with the 

Sowceworks, MicroStar, and Infotech transactions. They knew or were reckless in not knowing 

that the MicroStar transactions were parking arrangements and that the Sourceworks and 

Infotech deals contained material contingencies and collection was not probable.  Sweeney and 

Scherping also knew of or approved the improper acceleration of revenue in the third quarter of 

2002, thereby knowingly providing substantial assistance to Quovadx in improperly recognizing 

this revenue. 

       8.     Sweeney and Scherping also falsely represented in letters to Quovadx's outside 

auditing firm that they were not aware of any contingencies or side-agreements with respect to 

the transactions at issue. They signed false disclosure certifications in connection with the 

company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the pertinent quarters and its annual report on 

Form 10-K for 2003.  They knowingly circumvented internal accounting controls and falsified 

books and records in the course of their fraudulent misconduct. 

       9.     By committing the acts alleged in ths  Complaint, Sweeney and Scherping 

directly and indirectly engaged in and, unless restrained and enjoined by the Court, will continue 

to engage in, transactions, acts, practices and courses of business that violate Sections 17(a)(l), 

(2) and (3) of the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act") [I 5 U.S.C. $77q(a)(l), (2) and 

(3)] and Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange 

Act") [15 U.S.C. $$78j(b) and 78m(b)(5)], and Rules lob-5, 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 thereunder [17 

C.F.R. $$ 240.10b-5,240.13b2-1,240.13b2-21.   Sweeney and Scherping also aided and abetted 

Quovadx's violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 

U.S.C. $$78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A), 78m(b)(2)(B)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-13 

thereunder [17 C.F.R. $$240.12b-20,240.13a-1,240.13a-11,240.13a-13].    In addition, Sweeney 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

and Scherping violated Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 [17 C.F.R.  5 240.13a-141 by signing false 

certifications that Quovadx's annual and quarterly reports on Forms 10-K and 10-Q did not 

contain any untrue statement of material fact and that the company's financial statements fairly 

presented its financial condition. 

       10.    The SEC seeks a judgment from the Court: (a) finding that Sweeney and 

Scherping committed the violations alleged herein; (b) permanently enjoining Sweeney and 

Scherping from violating or aiding and abetting future violations of these provisions of the 

federal securities laws; (c) barring them from acting as officers or directors of a public company 

pursuant to Section 20(e) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §77t(e)] and Section 21(d) of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78u(d)]; (d) requiring them to disgorge, with prejudgment interest, the 

bonuses, option awards and other payments or any other ill-gotten gain that they received as a 

result of Quovadx's inflated financial results and the accounting improprieties described in this 

Complaint; and (e) requiring them to pay civil money penalties pursuant to Section 20(d) of the 

Securities Act and Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $5 77t(d), 78u(d)(3)]. 

                              JURISDICTION AND VENUE 

       1 1.   The Court has jurisdiction of this civil enforcement action pursuant to Sections 

20(b) and 22(a) of the Securities Act and Section 21(d) and (e) and Section 27 of the Exchange 

Act [15 U.S.C. $5 77t(b), 77v(a), 78u(d) and (e), and 78aal.  The defendants made use of the 

means or instruments of interstate commerce, of the mails, or of the facilities of a national 

securities exchange in connection with their acts, transactions, practices and courses of business 

alleged in this Complaint. 

       12.    Venue lies in the District of Colorado pursuant Section 22(a) of the Securities Act 

and Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $9 77v(a), 78aal.  The defendants are found, are 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

inhabitants, or transact business in this District, and acts or transactions constituting the 

violations alleged herein occurred in this District. 

                                      THE PARTIES 

       13.    The plaintiff is the Securities and Exchange Commission, which brings this action 

pursuant to the authority conferred on it by Sections 20(b), (d) and (e) and 22(a) of the Securities 

Act 115 U.S.C. $5 77(t)(b), (d) & (e) and 77v(a)] and Section 21(d) and (e) of the Exchange Act 

[15 U.S.C. 5 78u(d) & (e)]. 

       14.    Defendant Lorine Sweeney, age 39, lives in Cheny Hills Village, Colorado. She 

was President and Chief Executive Officer of Quovadx fi-om February 2000 until she resigned in 

April 2004.  She certified the accuracy of the company's financial results in the quarterly reports 

on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002 and the second and third quarters of 2003 and the 

annual report on Form 1 0-K for 2003. 

       15.    Defendant Gary Scherping, age 46, lives in Highlands Ranch, Colorado. He was 

Executive Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Quovadx from September 

2000 until he resigned in April 2004. Prior to being CFO, he was the company's Controller. He 

worked as an auditor for KPMG LLP from 1985 to 1988. At Quovadx, he certified the accuracy 

of the company's financial results in the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 

2002 and the second and third quarters of 2003 and the annual report on Form 10-K for 2003. 

                       RELEVANT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

       16.    As a public company, Quovadx was required to file quarterly and annual reports 

with the Commission that presented its financial results in conformity with Generally Accepted 

Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants' 

Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition ("SOP 97-2") and related 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

interpretations are the principal GAAP provisions governing the recognition of revenue for sales 

of software and software licenses. Under SOP 97-2, a company may not recognize revenue fiom 

a software sale unless there is: persuasive evidence of an arrangement; delivery of the software; 

a fixed and determinable seller's fee; and a probability of collecting the account receivable. If 

payment is substantially contingent on the buyer's success in distributing the product, either due 

to the terms of the deal or because the buyer is so undercapitalized that it cannot pay until it sells 

the product, the seller may not recognize the software license revenue at the time of the sale. 

                                           FACTS 

       17.    Quovadx, a Delaware corporation based in Englewood, Colorado, is a software 

company that licenses software and sells related services to the healthcare industry. The 

company's overall revenue for 2003, after the restatements, was approximately $70 million, of 

which approximately $20 million was software licensing revenue. It had a net loss of 

approximately $16 million in 2003. It completed its initial public offering in 2000. During the 

period relevant to this Complaint, Quovadx's common stock was registered with the 

Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  § 781(g)] and traded on the 

NASDAQ.    In May 2002, it filed a Form S-8 to offer stock in connection with its employee stock 

purchase plan. In December 2003, Quovadx filed a registration statement on Form S-4, which 

incorporated by reference the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q that Quovadx had filed in 2003 to 

that point. In March 2004, Quovadx filed a registration statement on Form S-8, which 

incorporated by reference Quovadx's annual report on Form 10-K for 2003 and its quarterly 

reports on Form 10-Q and its current reports on Form 8-K filed with the Commission during 

2003. 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

       18.   In 2002 and 2003, Quovadx derived approximately one-third of its reported 

revenue from software licensing fees, with the remainder coming from software maintenance and 

service contracts. In the relevant period, the company did not report a profit.  By late 2002, 

Sweeney and Scherping had launched a two-pronged strategy of:  (a) growth through 

acquisitions using the company's common stock; and (b) achieving profitability through an 

emphasis on hgh-margin  software licensing sales, as opposed to low-margin software 

maintenance agreements. Beginning in 2003, the company separately reported its software 

licensing revenue in its periodic filings and highlighted the growth of this segment of its revenue 

base in its press releases and earnings releases. In conference calls with stock analysts, Sweeney 

and Scherping emphasized the importance of software licensing revenue to attain,profitability 

and underscored the continuing growth of that revenue relative to other revenue. 

       I.    THE FRAUDULENT REVENUE TRANSACTIONS:  
             SOURCEWORKS; MICROSTAR, AND INFOTECH  

             A.     SECOND QUARTER         2003: 
                    THE DEFENDANTS OVERSTATED REVENUE                 BY  $570,000 
                    IN A CONTINGENT TRANSACTION WITH SOURCEWORKS. 

       19.   In early 2003, a senior Quovadx sales person solicited the Veterans' 

Administration ("VA") to buy licenses for Quovadx's Insurenet software, a product for 

processing patient medical insurance information. The VA rehsed  to buy the licenses outright, 

but expressed an interest in using the software to process eligibility requests and periodically 

paying Quovadx a fee based on the number of insurance transactions that it processed. 

Sweeney and Scherping rejected this approach, because it did not involve the sale of software 

licenses and they did not want to license software on a per-use basis. 

       20.   With the defendants' approval, the Quovadx salesperson contacted a Colorado- 

based venture capital firm and proposed that the firm buy the Insurenet licenses fiom Quovadx. 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

In return, Quovadx would negotiate a contract for the venture capital firm to license the software 

on a per-use basis to the VA.  As the end of the second quarter of 2003 approached, the venture 

capital firm agreed in principal to Quovadx's proposal. Under this proposal, Quovadx would 

immediately recognize revenue from the sale of Insurenet to the venture capital firm. 

       21.    Because the venture capital firm was not a software reseller, it repeatedly said that 

it would not pay for the Insurenet licenses unless and until Quovadx obtained the promised user 

contract with the VA.  The Quovadx employee expressed confidence that Quovadx would obtain 

the contract with the VA early in the third quarter. With that understanding, the venture capital 

firm created a shell company, Sourceworks USA LLC, in late June 2003 to buy the Insurenet 

licenses fiom Quovadx and enter into the user contract with the VA. However, both parties 

agreed that Sourceworks' payment would be contingent on Quovadx successfully negotiating a 

contract between the VA and Sourceworks in the following quarter. 

       22.    On June 30,2003  --the last day of the second quarter --Quovadx and 

Sourceworks executed a contract requiring Sourceworks to pay Quovadx $600,000 for the 

Insurenet licenses. The contract, whch  gave Sourceworks six months to pay Quovadx, did not 

indicate that Sourceworks' ability to pay was contingent upon Quovadx successfully negotiating 

a VA deal for Sourceworks. Sweeney signed this contract on behalf of Quovadx. 

       23.    Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless in not knowing, of the payment 

contingency because they participated in bi-weekly Quovadx sales meetings during the course of 

the negotiations with Sourceworks in which the contingent nature of the transaction was 

described. In particular, they knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that the substance of the 

proposed transaction was that Quovadx would obtain a user contract with the VA on behalf of 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

Sourceworks so that Sourceworks could use the software to sell services to the VA. In the 

absence of the VA contract, Sourceworks had no use for the software licenses. 

       24.    As part of the process of reviewing the Sourceworks transaction for revenue 

recognition purposes, Scherping asked for financial information fiom Sourceworks so that he 

could determine whether Sourceworks was likely to pay for the software licenses. Scherping 

received unaudited financial statements and cash flow projections from Sourceworks. The 

unaudited financial statements did not reflect an ability to pay for the licenses and, since the 

newly-created shell had no other business, the cash flow projections assumed the revenue from 

the VA, which was contingent on the success of Quovadx's negotiations with the VA. 

       25.    Scherping sent an e-mail stating that Quovadx had to be reasonably assured that it 

would be paid within 6 months. He expressed concern that the amount of cash Sourceworks 

projected for the end of the year was insufficient to support paying Quovadx for the software 

licenses. He also indicated that he believed that the projections on accounts receivable were too 

optimistic. Finally, he noted that he had anticipated getting audited financial statements from 

Sourceworks, as opposed to unaudited projections. 

       26.    Because Scherping understood that the financial projections did not support a 

collectibility analysis, he asked the venture capital firm to infuse approximately $1 million into 

Sourceworks to guarantee payment. The venture capital firm refused, and only placed 

approximately $30,000 in Sourceworks, which gave it the appearance of being more than a shell. 

Sourceworks also never provided audited financial statements or submitted any proof that it could 

pay the receivable. Despite these red flags concerning collectibility, Scherping approved 

Quovadx's recognition of the entire $600,000 as revenue for the second quarter of 2003. 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

      27.    Sweeney herself told the Quovadx employee that the Sourceworks financial 

statements were insufficient. 

      28.    On July 23,2003, Quovadx issued a press release, reviewed and approved by 

Sweeney and Scherping, touting the company's second quarter financial results, which included 

the revenue from the contingent Sourceworks transaction. For the next eight months, Quovadx 

tried in vain to secure a contract with the VA for Sourceworks. The VA deal did not come to 

fi-uition and, other than a $30,000 payment in August 2003, Sourceworks did not pay for the 

Insurenet licenses. 

      29.    Because of the improper revenue recognition, Quovadx overstated its software 

revenue in the second quarter of 2003 by $570,000, or approximately 9 percent. The company 

included this overstated revenue in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter, which 

Quovadx filed with the Commission on August 5,2003.  Sweeney and Scherping certified the 

accuracy of this report.  Quovadx also included the Sourceworks revenue in an earnings release, 

whch was subsequently attached to a Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 24,2003. 

Because Sourceworks did not pay the remaining $570,000, Quovadx's new senior management 

reversed the Sourceworks transaction as part of the second restatement in August 2004. 

             B.     THIRD QUARTER 2003: 
                    THE DEFENDANTS OVERSTATED REVENUE BY 
                    NEARLY    $5 MILLION IN SHAM TRANSACTIONS 
                    WITH MICROSTAR AND CONTINGENT 
                    AND UNCOLLECTIBLE TRANSACTIONS WITH INFOTECH. 

                    (1)   The Defendants Engaged In Parking 
                          Arrangements Totaling $380,000 With MicroStar. 

      30.    In the third quarter of 2003, Quovadx fiaudulently recognized approximately 

$380,000 in software licensing revenue from three parking arrangements with MicroStar, Inc. 

Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that these purported sales to 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

MicroStar were part of an arrangement designed to accelerate revenue recognition from other 

anticipated sales that Quovadx was in the process of negotiating, but had been unable to finalize 

before the end of the quarter. Sweeney and Scherping approved these sham arrangements in an 

attempt to meet Quovadx's third quarter sales targets. 

       31.    In each of the three parking arrangements, MicroStar agreed to hold inventory for 

Quovadx at the end of the quarter until Quovadx negotiated the sale of the inventory to the 

intended customers in the fourth quarter. MicroStar was to receive a luckback for its role in 

facilitating this improper revenue recognition. Quovadx's recognition of revenue fiom these 

parking arrangements did not conform with GAAP   because: (a) MicroStar7s obligation to pay 

was contingent on Quovadx selling the software to other customers; and (b) collection of the 

receivable from MicroStar was not probable because MicroStar could not afford to pay it. 

       32.    In September 2003, a Quovadx subsidiary in the United Kingdom anticipated 

selling approximately $250,000 worth of software licenses to one of its resellers (the "Reseller"). 

However, the Reseller would not enter into the transaction until it had an end-user for the 

software. In late September, the Reseller told Quovadx that its end-user was not ready to buy the 

software licenses and therefore the Reseller was unlikely to take the risk and buy the software 

licenses fiom Quovadx before the end of the quarter. On September 26, Quovadx's then 

Executive Vice President of Sales learned that the transaction might fall through and transmitted 

an e-mail to his sales staff asking if there were any distributors who would accept the $250,000 

of licenses to hold in inventory to resell to the Reseller when Quovadx closed the deal. One 

salesperson proposed this parking arrangement to the president of MicroStar. 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       33.    MicroStar, which had previously done one small deal with Quovadx, agreed to 

park the software licenses in its inventory until Quovadx finalized the sale to the Reseller in the 

fourth quarter of 2003. 

       34.    Quovadx7s then Executive Vice President of Sales transmitted an e-mail to 

Sweeney, informing her that the sales staff would hold MicroStar in reserve in case the Reseller 

did not commit by the end of the third quarter. Sweeney replied that this was "good thi&ng." 

On September 29, after the Reseller gave notice of its decision not to buy the licenses from 

Quovadx until it had closed with its end-user, the Quovadx sales staff immediately secured an 

order from MicroStar. The then Executive Vice President of Sales transmitted an e-mail to 

Sweeney advising her of this development. 

       35.    On September 30, the last day of the third quarter, Sweeney pressed her staff to 

reach the third quarter sales goal of $8 million in software licensing revenue. She e-mailed the 

then Executive Vice President directly, stating that she needed to get $8 million in software 

licensing revenue and expressing her confidence that he was capable of doing so.  She closed the 

e-mail with the admonition: "Make me proud.  0"  The then Executive Vice President replied in 

an e-mail that he was doing every "crazy thing" he could to reach $8 million in software revenue. 

       36.    Shortly thereafter, Sweeney learned that two more deals worth about $155,000 

that could not close before the end of the quarter had been parked with MicroStar as well, so that 

MicroStar held about $380,000 in software licenses pending their sale to the true customers. 

       37.    Sweeney and Scherping also received a series of sales status reports that reflected 

that customers other than MicroStar were the true intended customers for the software licenses 

parked with MicroStar. Scherping nevertheless signed each of the three contracts with MicroStar 

on behalf of Quovadx. Before Quovadx filed its quarterly report on Form 10-Q, Scherping 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

signed an amendment to one of those contracts that made clear that MicroStar was not the true 

customer. 

       38.    Quovadx included the revenue fiom the three sham transactions with MicroStar in 

its preliminary earnings release (which was subsequently attached to a Form 8-K filed with the 

Commission on October 22,2003) and its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 

2003 filed with the Commission on November 3,2003.  Sweeney and Scherping certified the 

accuracy of this quarterly report. As a result of including the MicroStar revenue, Quovadx 

overstated its software licensing revenue by $380,000 or approximately 14% in those filings with 

the Commission. 

       39.    In November 2003, Sweeney and Scherping learned that MicroStar had not paid 

for any of the software licenses because the anticipated customers had declined to buy the 

licenses from MicroStar. Sweeney and Scherping did not direct Quovadx to reverse the 

MicroStar revenue or initiate collection efforts. Instead, with their knowledge and approval, 

Quovadx's sales staff was directed to find alternative customers to buy the software licenses 

fiom MicroStar. Internal e-mails reflect that, in order to avoid issuing a credit memorandum to 

MicroStar and reversing the revenue fiom the parking arrangements, Scherping considered 

various means to structure transactions to channel proceeds fiom unrelated transactions through 

MicroStar, which would create the appearance on Quovadx's books and records that MicroStar 

had paid Quovadx for the software. 

       40.    In December 2003, the Reseller agreed to buy approximately $257,000 of 

software licenses from Quovadx's U.K. subsidiary. However, as Scherping knew, or was 

reckless in not knowing, the software licenses that the Reseller bought were not the same as the 

software licenses Quovadx had parked with MicroStar in September 2003. 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

       41.    In February 2004, the Reseller finally made payment for the different software 

licenses. Quovadx's senior management, including Scherping, determined that they would 

channel this payment through MicroStar. The U.K. subsidiary reversed the sale fiom its books 

and sent the approximately $257,000 to Quovadx's U.S. offices. Scherping knew of and 

approved this action despite knowing, or being reckless in not knowing, that different software 

licenses were involved than those parked at MicroStar and that the "sales" to MicroStar were 

parking arrangements in the first place. 

       42.    With Sweeney's and Scherping's knowledge, or reckless disregard, Quovadx 

wired ths  money to MicroStar with the instruction to MicroStar to wire it back to Quovadx, less 

a $10,000 payment which MicroStar could keep.  MicroStar kept $10,000 of these funds and sent 

the remainder to Quovadx. By "roundtripping" this unrelated payment through MicroStar and 

back to itself, Quovadx created the false appearance that MicroStar had paid a significant portion 

of its receivable. Thus, Sweeney and Scherping knew or were reckless in not knowing that 

Quovadx had entered into these three parlung transactions with MicroStar and that Quovadx 

could not recognize revenue from those transactions. 

       43.    In August 2004, Quovadx  - under new management   --reversed all three of the 

parking arrangements with MicroStar as part of its second restatement. 

                     (2)    The Defendants Fraudulently 
                            Recognized  $4.6 Million 
                            In Revenue from Two Transactions With Infotech. 

       44.    At the direction of Sweeney and Scherping, Quovadx executed two related 

agreements with a company called Infotech, Inc. ("Infotech") in early September 2003. Under 

the Distributor Agreement, Infotech agreed to buy $5 million of software licenses from Quovadx 

and be the exclusive distributor of Quovadx products in India. Under the Outsourcing 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

Agreement, Quovadx agreed to pay Infotech up to $2.46 million for certain outsourcing services 

and various research and development projects, pursuant to Statements of Work ("SOWS") to be 

subsequently negotiated. Both agreements provided for payment by letters-of-credit. The 

Distributor Agreement required that Infotech fund a $5.46 million letter-of-credit by no later then 

September 26,2003 and before Quovadx shipped any software to it.  The Outsourcing 

Agreement required Quovadx to fund a letter-of-credit to pay for the outsourcing services. 

       45.    As required by the Outsourcing Agreement, Quovadx funded a letter-of-credit for 

$2.46 million to pay Infotech as outsourcing services were rendered. By mid-September, 

however, Infotech had not funded its letter-of-credit to pay for its software license purchases. 

Although the letter-of-credit was not funded and thus Quovadx had no way to assure it would be 

paid, Quovadx --at Sweeney's and Scherpingys direction --slvpped the $5 million of software 

licenses to Infotech anyway so that it could recognize the revenue in the third quarter. 

       46.    In the last days of the third quarter, Quovadx was still well short of its revenue 

goals. At Sweeney's direction, Quovadx asked Infotech to buy yet more software licenses. In a 

related e-mail to a senior Quovadx salesperson, Sweeney stated that the quarterly revenue was 

looking "pretty uglyyy and asked about progress in getting Infotech to agree to another 

transaction. Sweeney emphasized that Quovadx would be in "major trouble" if it could not get 

Infotech to enter another transaction. Infotech agreed to buy more, but only if Quovadx 

guaranteed a pre-payment of over $1million in outsourcing funds. Sweeney agreed and, on 

September 30, the parties signed supplemental agreements under which Infotech was to buy an 

extra $2.1 million of software and Quovadx was to pre-pay Infotech about $1.13 million for 

unspecified outsourcing work. However, the agreements further specified that the prepayment 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

was contingent upon Infotech establishing and funding the letter-of-credit required under the 

Distributor Agreement. 

       47.    Infotech was required to fund a letter-of-credit by October 15 to cover this 

additional third-quarter transaction. At Sweeney's and Scherping's direction, Quovadx shipped 

the additional $2.1 million in software to Infotech on the last day of the quarter. Thus, by the 

end of the quarter, Quovadx had shipped $7.1 million worth of software to Infotech even though 

Infotech had failed to fund a letter-of-credit to pay for any of the software licenses, in breach of 

their agreement, and it was not probable that Quovadx would collect fiom Infotech. Quovadx 

offset the $7.1 million in software licensing revenue by its outsourcing obligation ($2.46 

million), recognizing about $4.6 million in revenue fiom the Infotech transactions for the quarter. 

Quovadx planned to recognize the balance as Infotech performed outsourcing services. 

       48.    In early October 2003, before Quovadx filed its third quarter report, Sweeney and 

Scherping learned that Infotech said that it needed $410,000 as margin money to establish and 

fund its required letters-of-credit to pay for the software licenses. Sweeney had been delaying 

Quovadx's release of its quarterly results pending confirmation that Infotech had established and 

funded the letters-of-credit for the third quarter sales. Eager to release Quovadx's results, 

Sweeney and Scherping had $41 0,000 wired to Infotech for Infotech to use as margin money to 

establish and fund the required letters-of credit. On October 17, Infotech gave Quovadx a letter 

fiom an Indian bank expressing confidence that Infotech's letter-of-credit would be opened (not 

funded) by October 21. 

       49.    On October 21, despite the receipt of the margin monies fiom Quovadx, Infotech 

had still not established and funded either of the required letters-of-credit. Rather, it forwarded 

to Quovadx another letter fiom its bank stating that Infotech had been approved for "limits for 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

letters of credit" up to $10 million, subject to meeting margin requirements. The letter noted that 

the bank would have to send any requests for letters-of-credit to a correspondent bank for 

processing. When a Quovadx salesperson forwarded this non-committal letter to Scherping by e- 

mail, Scherping responded: "Will you be a witness at my trial and support that I was NOT 

committing fiaud?"  Sweeney and Scherping relied on these letters as support for Infotech's 

supposed ability to pay for the software licenses and recognized $4.6 million of Infotech revenue 

in third quarter. 

       50.    Sweeney and Scherping also knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that the 

$41 0,000 payment to Infotech was falsely entered in Quovadx's books as a prepayment under 

the outsourcing agreements, when in fact Infotech had not satisfied the conditions for 

prepayment. Further, Scherping did not inform Quovadx's auditor that Quovadx had sent 

$410,000 to Infotech in an unavailing attempt to help Infotech establish and fund the required 

letters-of-credit. 

       51.    On October  22, with Sweeney's and Scherping's approval, Quovadx issued a 

press release announcing the distribution and software development agreements with Infotech 

and a preliminary earnings release touting a 183% increase in software licensing revenue over 

the thrd  quarter of the prior year. The Infotech transactions accounted for about 60% of 

Quovadx's reported third quarter software licensing revenue, which amounted to an 

overstatement of 164%. Quovadx's share price increased over 25%  after these announcements. 

In a conference call to analysts the same day, Sweeney emphasized: "our revenue growth far 

exceeds that of our competitors." As well as making misleading statements about Quovadx's 

growth in software license revenue compared to their industry competitors, both Sweeney and 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

Scherping stressed to analysts that the outsourcing agreement was projected to provide 

significant cost savings in the hture. 

       52.   Quovadx attached the preliminary earnings release containing the Infotech 

revenue to a Form 8-K that it filed with the Commission on October 22,2003.  Further, Quovadx 

included the Infotech revenue in the quarterly report on Form 10-Q that it filed with the 

Commission on November 3,2003.  Sweeney and Scherping also certified the accuracy of the 

quarterly report. 

             C.     FOURTH QUARTER         2003: 
                    THE DEFENDANTS FRAUDULENTLY OVERSTATED 
                    REVENUE BY      $6.5 MILLION FROM CONTINGENT AND 
                    UNCOLLECTIBLE TRANSACTIONS 
                    WITH INFOTECH. 

       53.   By mid-December 2003, Infotech had still not paid for its third quarter purchases. 

Despite ths,  Sweeney asked Infotech to buy $6.5 million of additional software licenses in the 

fourth quarter. Infotech was unwilling to do so unless Quovadx immediately wired Infotech 

$500,000, ostensibly as part of the $1.13 million in outsourcing prepayment monies subject to 

the supplemental third quarter agreement. However, Infotech had not met its obligation under 

the supplemental agreement to establish and fund the letter-of-credit required under the 

Distributor Agreement. 

       54.   To convince Infotech to buy more software and show Wall Street and Quovadx's 

investors continued growth, Sweeney and Scherping approved the $500,000 payment, despite 

Infotech's failure to have funded or established the required letter-of-credit. In fact, at that point 

in time, Infotech had received specific statements of work for only a small amount of 

outsourcing, far less than necessary to justify a $500,000 prepayment. At the same time, with 

Sweeney's and Scherping's knowledge and approval, Quovadx sent Infotech a default letter for 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

failing to pay for the third quarter sales. Thus, by mid-December, with Sweeney's and 

Scherping's knowledge and approval, Quovadx had sent Infotech $910,000, yet Infotech had not 

paid for any of the software licenses for which it had contracted. 

       55.    Infotech also conditioned buying more software on Quovadx committing to 

increase its outsourcing (which had been minimal) to $10 million a year and agreeing to a six- 

month payment plan for the additional software. Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless 

in not knowing, that Infotech had conditioned its purchase on these terms. 

       56.    By the end of December 2004, Infotech still had not funded the required letters- 

of-credit for the prior third quarter sales. In an internal e-mail on December 29, Scherping was 

told that Quovadx could not recognize the $6.5 million in software licensing revenue fiom the 

last-minute Infotech transaction unless Infotech had established and funded the letters-of-credit 

for the thud quarter transactions. The e-mail warned Scherping that the lack of letters-of-credit 

placed the previously-recognized third quarter Infotech revenue "in danger." 

       57.    On December 3 1, Infotech signed a contract to buy $6.5 million of software. 

Scherping signed an agreement to outsource to Infotech up to $1.94 million of projects through 

August 2004. 

       58.    In January 2004, in connection with its 2003 audit, Quovadx's auditor learned that 

Infotech had not paid Quovadx for any of the third quarter transactions and that Quovadx had 

sold additional software to Infotech in the fourth quarter. By early February 2004, the auditor 

told Quovadx's audit committee and Sweeney and Scherping that Infotech had to make a 

significant payment or the revenue for both quarters would be in question. The auditor told 

Scherping that if Quovadx issued an earnings release before getting such a payment, the 

company would have to revise its financial results if Infotech later failed to pay. 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

       59.    On February 11,2004, Quovadx issued its preliminary fourth quarter earnings 

release (attached to a Form 8-K filed with the Commission on February 12,2004), which 

included the $6.5 million in Infotech revenue. Sweeney and Scherping approved this release 

even though they knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that: (1) Infotech had not paid for the 

third quarter purchases; (2) Infotech's ability to pay for the fourth quarter purchases depended on 

its ability to resell the software licenses; and (3) Quovadx had an undisclosed commitment to 

give Infotech $10 million annually in outsourcing projects. The earnings release stated that 

Quovadx's total annual software licensing revenue for 2003 had increased about 30% and that its 

year-over-year software licensing revenue had grown about 173%. The Infotech sales accounted 

for virtually the entire increase in Quovadx's software licensing revenue. After this release, 

Quovadx's stock price increased by about lo%, closing at $6.66 per share on February 12. 

       60.    In early March 2004, Quovadx's auditor advised Quovadx that it would have to 

reverse the Infotech revenue from both the third and fourth quarters unless Infotech made a 

substantial payment before Quovadx's annual report was filed. On March 8, Sweeney and 

Scherping authorized Infotech to draw down the $1.94 million balance on Quovadx's 

outsourcing letter-of-credit with the understanding that Infotech would use these funds to arrange 

bank financing to pay Quovadx for the software purchases. 

       61.    Immediately after receiving the $1.94 million, Sweeney and Scherping were told 

by Infotech that it believed Infotech was entitled to the money under the outsourcing agreement 

and would not use it to pay for the software licenses. Sweeney and Scherping requested that the 

money be returned but to no avail. Further, Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless in 

not knowing, that Quovadx had sent an additional $100,000 to Infotech in early March 2004. 

Quovadx was never paid for the software licenses. In total, Sweeney and Scherping had 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

Quovadx send Infotech approximately $3 million, ostensibly for outsourcing services, but in 

reality as inducements for Infotech to purchase software licenses and as funds for Infotech to pay 

Quovadx. 

       11.    THE IMPROPER ACCELERATION              OF  REVENUE 
              TRANSACTION IN THE THIRD QUARTER 2002 

       62.    In May 2002, Quovadx announced the release of QuickTrials  1.O, a software 

product for automating the management of clinical drug trials.  In June,  Quovadx entered into 

negotiations to sell QuickTrials 1.0for $250,000 to a company that managed clinical trials in the 

pharmaceutical industry ("the Customer"). Because the existing version of QuickTrials did not 

meet all of the Customer's specifications, Quovadx and the Customer discussed developing an 

acceptable version of QuickTrials, to be called QuickTrials 2.0. 

       63.    In early September 2002, Sweeney and Scherping learned that QuickTrials 2.0 

would not be ready for delivery to the Customer until after the end of the third quarter. Because 

they wanted to recognize the revenue in the third quarter, Sweeney and Scherping proposed re- 

structuring the transaction to the effect that the Customer would pay Quovadx the entire 

$250,000 for the platform software needed to run QuickTrials, and that they enter into a 

partnership to develop QuickTrials 2.0.  Quovadx said it would deliver the platform software in 

the third quarter and the first development (or beta) version of QuickTrials 2.0 in October 2002. 

       64.    The proposal made by Sweeney and Scherping divided the form of the transaction 

into two parts to justify recognition of the $250,000 purchase price as revenue in the third quarter 

of 2002.  Sweeney and Scherping understood that the substance of the deal, and the contingency 

for payment, was Quovadx's future delivery of the anticipated development versions of the 

QuickTrials 2.0 software. On September 30, the last day of the quarter, Quovadx and the 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

Customer executed a contract under which Quovadx would provide the Customer with beta 

versions of QuickTrials 2.0 and a commercial version of that software, if and when released. 

       65.    Further, at the Customer's request, Quovadx agreed to extend the $250,000 

payment over eight months, whch  roughly corresponded to the anticipated completion of the 

development of QuickTrials 2.0. Notwithstanding this extended payment plan, and the promise 

to deliver QuickTrials 2.0 in the fbture if and when Quovadx released it, Sweeney and Scherping 

had Quovadx recognize the full $250,000 in revenue in the third quarter of 2002. 

       66.    Quovadx's accounting for the transaction with the Customer did not conform with 

GAAP.   As Sweeney and Scherping knew, the value of the transaction for the Customer lay in 

obtaining the beta versions of QuickTrials 2.0, not the platform programs delivered in the third 

quarter. By prematurely recognizing this revenue, Quovadx overstated its software licensing 

revenue for the third quarter of 2002 by $250,000, or approximately 10 percent. Quovadx 

included this inflated revenue in its quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002, 

and Sweeney and Scherping certified the accuracy of that report. Quovadx also included the 

revenue in an earnings release which it issued and subsequently included in a Form 8-K filed 

with the Commission on October 2,2002. 

                              FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
              Violations of Sections 17(a)(l), (2) and (3) of the Securities Act  
                                    [15 U.S.C. 5 77q(a)]  

       67.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 66 above. 

       68.    Section 17(a) of the Securities Act prohibits a person, in the offer or sale of any 

securities, from (1) employing any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud, (2) obtaining money or 

property by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or any omission to state a material 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which 

they were made, not misleading, or (3) engaging in any transaction, practice, or course of 

business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchaser. 

       69.    A person violates these provisions by, among other things, knowingly, recklessly, 

or negligently making material misstatements or omitting to state material information in 

Commission filings or in other statements disseminated to investors. 

       70.    Sweeney and Scherping knowingly, recklessly, or negligently authorized the 

fraudulent recognition of revenue from the Sourceworks, Microstar, and Infotech transactions. 

They approved the issuance of preliminary earnings releases that included this inflated revenue, 

and reviewed and signed quarterly and annual reports that included the fraudulent revenue. In 

each of these transactions, Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless or negligent in not 

knowing, that Quovadx could not recognize the pertinent revenue because those transactions had 

material contingencies or were not true sales, and that it was not probable that Quovadx would 

collect payment from the respective customers. 

       71.    As a result of its fraudulent recognition of revenue from these transactions, 

Quovadx overstated its software licensing revenue in its filings with the Commission and its 

releases to investors by approximately $570,000 (or approximately 9%) for the second quarter of 

2003, by almost $5 million (or approximately 177%) for the third quarter of 2003, and by $6.5 

million (or approximately 118%) for the fourth quarter of 2003.  Sweeney and Scherping signed 

the quarterly reports for the second and third quarters of 2003 and authorized their filing with the 

Commission. Sweeney and Scherping approved the preliminary earnings releases for the second, 

third, and fourth quarters of 2003, and they authorized the filing of the Forms 8-K with the 

Commission to which Quovadx had attached these preliminary earnings releases.  Sweeney and 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

Scherping also approved a third quarter press release on October 22,2003, which contained 

materially false information about the Infotech transaction. 

       72.    Quovadx had continuously effective offerings of securities pursuant to Forms S-8 

and S-4 during the period relevant to this Complaint. 

       73.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Sweeney and Scherping violated 

Section 17(a)(l), (2), and (3) of the Securities Act. 

                             SECOND CLAIM       FOR   RELIEF  
            Violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 5 78j(b)],  
                    and Rule  lob-5 thereunder   [17 C.F.R 5 240.10b-51  

       74.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 66 above. 

       75.    Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder prohibit any 

person, in connection with the purchase or sale of securities, from (a) employing any device, 

scheme, or artifice to defraud, (b) making any untrue statement of material fact or to omit to state 

a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances 

under which they were made, not misleading, or (c) engaging in any act, practice, or course of 

business which operates or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon any person. 

       76.    A person violates these provisions by, among other things, knowingly or 

recklessly making material misstatements or omitting to state material information in 

Commission filings or in other statements disseminated to investors. 

       77.    Sweeney and Scherping knowingly or recklessly authorized the fraudulent 

recognition of revenue from the Sourceworks, Microstar, and Infotech transactions. They 

approved the issuance of preliminary earnings releases that included this inflated revenue, and 

reviewed and signed quarterly and annual reports that included the fraudulent revenue. In each 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

of these transactions, Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that 

Quovadx could not recognize the pertinent revenue because those transactions had material 

contingencies or were not true sales, and that it was not probable that Quovadx would collect 

payment from the respective customers. 

       78.    As a result of its fraudulent recognition of revenue from these transactions, 

Quovadx overstated its software licensing revenue in its filings with the Commission and its 

releases to investors by approximately $570,000 (or approximately 9%) for the second quarter of 

2003, by almost $5 million (or approximately 177%) for the third quarter of 2003, and by $6.5 

million (or approximately 1 18%) for the fourth quarter of 2003.  Sweeney and Scherping signed 

the quarterly reports for the second and third quarters of 2003' and authorized their filing with the 

Commission. Sweeney and Scherping approved the preliminary earnings releases for the second, 

third, and fourth quarters of 2003, and they authorized the filing of the Forms 8-K with the 

Commission to which Quovadx had attached these preliminary earnings releases. Sweeney and 

Scherping also approved a third quarter press release on October 22,2003, which contained 

materially false information about the Infotech transaction. 

       79.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Sweeney and Scherping violated 

Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder. 

                              THIRD   CLAIM    FOR RELIEF  
      Violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder  
                      115 U.S.C. §78m(b)(5), 17 C.F.R. #240.13b2-11  

       80.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 66 above. 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

       81.    Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act prohibits any person from knowingly 

circumventing or knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or 

knowingly falsifying any book, record or account. 

       82.    Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 prohibits any person from directly or indirectly 

falsifjing or causing to be falsified any book, record or account subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of 

the Exchange Act. 

       83.    Sweeney and Scherping knowingly circumvented Quovadx's internal accounting 

controls. For example, they knowingly approved the recognition of revenue from the contingent 

arrangements with Sourceworks, MicroStar, and Infotech, circumventing Quovadx's internal 

controls, which did not permit the recognition of revenue from such transactions. Sweeney and 

Scherping circumvented Quovadx's credit-worthiness controls by sending Infotech $410,000 in 

October 2003, which Infotech used as a margin deposit and obtained a bank letter suggesting that 

Infotech had some (inconclusive) ability to have a letter-of-credit processed. They then used that 

bank letter to claim that Infotech was creditworthy. 

       84.    Sweeney and Scherping directly or indirectly falsified Quovadx's books and 

records. For example, they authorized sending $410,000 to Infotech in October 2003 as a margin 

deposit (in a failed attempt to establish and hd  letters-of-credit) which was inaccurately 

recorded as a prepayment for outsourcing work.  Sweeney and Scherping also falsified 

Quovadx's books and records by having a sale by Quovadx's U.K. subsidiary removed from the 

subsidiary's books in advance of having the payment from that sale channeled to MicroStar. 

Similarly, they had this payment falsely recorded as being made by MicroStar when MicroStar 

then forwarded it to Quovadx. 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

       85.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Sweeney and Scherping violated 

Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder. 

                             FOURTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                          Violations of Exchange  Act Rule 13b2-2 
                                 [17 C.F.R. §§240.13b2-21 

       86.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 66 above. 

       87.    Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2 prohibits any director or officer of an issuer from 

directly or indirectly making or causing to be made misleading statements to an accountant in 

connection with an audit. 

       88.    Sweeney and Scherping made materially misleading statements to Quovadx's 

auditor in connection with the auditor's review of Quovadx's accounting. In particular, they 

signed management representation letters sent to Quovadx's auditor for the second and third 

quarter 2003 review and the year-end 2003 audit that were misleading because they did not 

disclose the true facts and circumstances of the Sourceworks, MicroStar, and Infotech 

transactions. The letters failed to disclose, for example, that the arrangement with MicroStar to 

hold licenses in Microstar's inventory had no legitimate business purpose and that MicroStar 

had no ability or intention to pay for the software licenses unless it could resell them in 

transactions to be negotiated and closed by Quovadx. The letters also failed to disclose that 

Quovadx had recognized more than $11 million in revenue on software sales to Infotech, even 

after Sweeney and Scherping knew, or were reckless in not knowing, that it was not probable 

that Infotech would pay for the software. The letters failed to disclose that Sourceworks would 

not and could not pay for the software in that transaction unless and until Quovadx obtained a 

user contract with the VA on Sourceworks' behalf. 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

       89.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Sweeney and Scherping violated 

Exchange Act Rule 13b2-2. 

                              FIFTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                         Violations of Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 
                                 [17 C.F.R. 9 240.131-141 

       90.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 66 above. 

       91.    As the principal executive officers of Quovadx, Sweeney and Scherping were 

required to, and did, certify Quovadx's annual report on Form 10-K for 2003 and its quarterly 

reports on Forms 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002 and the second and third quarters of 2003. 

Among other thngs, they certified that:  (a) the reports did not contain any untrue statement of 

material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made not 

misleading; and (b) the financial statements and other financial information included in the 

report fairly presented in all material respects Quovadx's financial condition, results of 

operations, and cash flows. These certifications were materially false. 

       92.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Sweeney and Scherping violated 

Exchange Act Rule 13 a- 14. 

                              SIXTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
           Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 
             [15 U.S.C. §78m(a)] and Rules 12b-20,13a-1,13a-11,  and 13a-13 
                    17 C.F.R. ~~240.12b-20,13a-1,13a-ll    and 13a-131 
       93.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 66 above. 

       94.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 

thereunder require that issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, 

such as Quovadx, file periodic reports with the Commission that are complete and accurate in all 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

material respects. Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 requires that, in addition to the information expressly 

required to be included in a statement or report, an issuer must add such further material 

information, if any, as may be necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the 

circumstances under which they are made, not misleading. 

       95.    Quovadx materially overstated its software revenue in the thrd  quarter of 2002 by 

prematurely recognizing revenue fkom the QuickTrials contract with the Customer. Quovadx 

also materially overstated its software revenue for the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2003 

by fraudulently recognizing revenue fiom the transactions with Sourceworks, Microstar, and 

Infotech. As a result, Quovadx's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002 

and the second and third quarters of 2003, its annual report on Form 10-K for 2003, and the 

earnings releases attached to its Forms 8-K for the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2003 

contained materially inaccurate and misleading statements. Accordingly, Quovadx violated 

Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       96.    Sweeney and Scherping intentionally engaged in misconduct to overstate 

Quovadx's software revenues. They also encountered significant red flags that they ignored. 

Accordingly, they knowingly or recklessly authorized improper revenue recognition, and 

reviewed and signed the company's quarterly and annual reports that materially overstated 

Quovadx's software licensing revenue. By their conduct in structuring, implementing, approving 

and, in some instances, attempting to conceal the impropriety of that revenue recognition, 

Sweeney and Scherping knowingly provided substantial assistance to Quovadx's reporting 

violations. 

       97.    By engaging in the conduct described above, Sweeney and Scherping aided and 

abetted Quovadx's violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

13a- 1 1 and 13a- 13 thereunder. 

                            SEVENTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
          Aiding and Abetting Violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B)  
            of the Exchange Act  115 U.S.C. @78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)]  

       98.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 66 above. 

       99.    Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act requires that issuers with securities 

registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as Quovadx, make and keep books, 

records, and accounts that accurately and fairly represent the transactions of the company. 

Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act requires issuers to devise and maintain a system of 

internal accounting controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among other things, 

transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity 

with GAAP  and to maintain accountability of assets. 

       100.   Quovadx's books and records were materially inaccurate during the relevant time 

period because they overstated software licensing revenue and did not accurately or fairly reflect 

the transactions of the company. Quovadx also failed to maintain internal controls sufficient to 

ensure that revenue recognition would occur properly and that its financial statements would be 

prepared in conformity with Quovadx's accounting policies and GAAP. Accordingly, Quovadx 

violated Sections 13@)(2)(A) and 13@)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

       101.   Sweeney and Scherping knowingly or recklessly directed or approved of the 

improper revenue recognition reflected in Quovadx's books and records. 

       102.  As the two most senior members of Quovadx's management, Sweeney and 

Scherping had responsibility for devising and maintaining Quovadx's internal accounting 

controls. They knowingly or recklessly failed to meet that responsibility. Indeed, they exploited 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

Quovadx's insufficient internal controls in order improperly to recognize revenue. For example, 

although Quovadx's internal controls generally required a determination that a customer was 

creditworthy as a prerequisite to revenue recognition, those controls did not require 

documentation of the steps taken in making this determination. This control was easily 

circumvented in recognizing revenue fi-om the Sourceworks and Microstar transactions. Further, 

Quovadx's internal controls did not prevent Sweeney and Scherping fi-om having $7 million of 

software licenses shipped to Infotech in September 2003 despite the lack of the contractually- 

required letters-of-credit to pay for that software. 

       103.  By engaging in the conduct described above, Sweeney and Scherping aided and 

abetted Quovadx's violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 1 3 (b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

                                   PRAYER    FOR   RELIEF 

       The Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final judgment against 

Defendants Sweeney and Scherping: 

A.     finding that Defendants Sweeney and Scherping committed the violations alleged above; 

B.    permanently enjoining Defendants Sweeney and Scherping fi-om violating Sections 

17(a)(l), (2) and (3) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. $5 77q(a)(l), (2),(3)] and Sections 10(b) 

and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $5 78j(b) and 78m(b)(5)] and Rules lob-5, 13a-14, 

13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder [17 C.F.R. $5 240.10b-5,240.13a-14,240.13b2-1, and 240.13b2- 

21 and fiom aiding and abetting violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $5 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 

13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder [17 C.F.R. $8 240.12b-20,240.13a-1,240.13a-11, and 240.13a- 

131; 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

C.     barring Defendants Sweeney and Scherping from serving as an officer or director of any 

issuer required to file reports with the Commission under Section 12 or 15(d) of the Exchange 

Act [15 U.S.C. $5 78(1) and 78(o)(d)], pursuant to Section 20(e) ofthe Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 

tj 77t(e)] and Section 2 1 (d)(2) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(2)]; 

D.     disgorgement of ill-gotten gain plus prejudgment interest thereon; 

E.     ordering Defendants Sweeney and Scherping to pay appropriate civil penalties pursuant 

to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act 115 U.S.C. § 77t(d)] and Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange 

Act [15 U.S.C.  78u(d)(3)]; 

F.     retaining jurisdiction over this action to implement and carry out the terms of all orders 

and decrees that may be entered; and 

G.     granting such other equitable relief as may be appropriate or necessary for the benefit of 

investors pursuant to. Section 21(d)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78u(d)(5)]. 

                                DEMAND     FOR   JURY   TRIAL 

       The SEC hereby demands a trial by jury pursuant to Rule 38(b) of the Federal Rules of 

Civil Procedure. 

      P 
Dated: ~b\~ 17 ,2007 
                                          Richard Simpson    ' 
                                          Thomas W. Peirce 

                                          Attorneys for Plaintiff 
                                          Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                           100 F. Street N.E. 
                                          Washington, DC  20549 
                                          (202) 5 5 1-44 13 (Simpson x 14492) 
