---------------------Page 1---------------------

                           UNITED STATES  DISTRICT  COURT
 
                                DISTRICT     OF  COLUMBIA
 

SECURITIES  AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION,                       Case:  1:1 0-cv-0~908           I L 
                                                            ASsigned   To  : Fnedman, pau   . 
                                    Plaintiff,               Assign. Date:  6121201  ~ . 
                                                                   .  t·on· General CIvil
                                                             Descnp I     . 
                      v. 
                                                                 COMPLAINT 
DIEBOLD,  INCORPORATED, 

                                    Defendant. 

       Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission  (the "Commission")  alleges: 

                                         SUMMARY 

       1.     This action concerns an earnings management fraud  by Diebold, Incorporated 

("Diebold"),  an Ohio corporation  that manufactures  and sells automated teller machines 

("ATMs"),  bank security systems,  and electronic  voting machines.  From at least 2002 to 2007, 

Diebold engaged in fraudulent accounting  practices in order to inflate earnings to meet forecasts. 

These practices included (i) improper use of "bill and hold" accounting; (ii) recognition of 

revenue on a lease agreement subject to a side buy-back agreement; (iii) manipulating  reserves 

and accruals; (iv) improperly delaying and capitalizing  expenses; and (v) writing up the value of 

used inventory. 

       2.     As a result of these practices, Diebold filed at least 40 annual, quarterly, and 

current reports with the Commission,  and issued dozens of press releases, that contained  material 

misstatements and omissions concerning  the company's  financial performance.  Diebold's 

improper, and in many instances fraudulent, accounting  practices misstated the company's 

reported pre-tax earnings by at least $127 million.  To correct the recent misstatements,  on 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

September  30, 2008, Diebold restated  its financial  statements  for the years 2003 through  2006, 

and the first quarter of 2007, in its Form  10-K for 2007. 

        3.      By engaging  in the practices and transactions  alleged in this Complaint,  Diebold 

violated Sections  lOeb), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A)  and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities  Exchange  Act of 

1934 ("Exchange  Act")  [15  U.S.c.§§   78j(b), 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A),  and 78m(b)(2)(B)]  and 

Rules  lOb-5, 12b-20,  13a-l, 13a-ll, and 13a-13 thereunder  [17 C.F.R.  §§  240.lOb-5, 

240. 12b-20, 240.13a-l,  240.13a-ll,  and 240.13a-13]. 

        4.     The Commission  seeks entry    of a final judgment  permanently  enjoining  Diebold 

from further  violations of these federal securities  laws and imposing a civil monetary  penalty. 

                                 JURISDICTION  AND VENUE 

       5.      This Court has jurisdiction  over this matter pursuant to Exchange  Act Sections  21 

and 27 [15 U.S.C.  §§ 78u and 78aa].  Diebold, directly or indirectly, made use  of the means or 

instrumentalities of interstate  commerce or the mails  in connection  with the conduct  alleged 

herein. 

       6.      Venue   is proper because certain of the acts, practices, and courses of business 

constituting  the violations  occurred  within this judicial  district. 

                                          DEFENDANT 

       7.      Diebold  is an Ohio corporation  headquartered  in North Canton,  Ohio.  Diebold 

manufactures  and sells ATMs, bank security  systems,  and electronic  voting machines.  Diebold's 

common  stock   is registered  with the Commission  pursuant  to Exchange  Act Section  12(b) and is 

listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 

                                              FACTS 

       8.      During the relevant  time period, Diebold regularly  manipulated  earnings  to meet 

forecasts.  As quarters came to a close, Diebold's  financial  management  received "flash  reports," 

                                                 2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

sometimes   on a daily basis, comparing Diebold's  actual earnings  to analyst earnings  forecasts, 

which certain Diebold management  often referred to    as "required"  or "necessary"  earnings. 

        9.      Toward the end   of certain quarters,the  company's  financial  management 

prepared "opportunity  lists" of ways to close the gap between the company's  actual financial 

results and analyst forecasts.  While some items on the "opportunity  lists" represented  legitimate 

business opportunities,  others were fraudulent  accounting transactions  designed  to improperly 

recognize revenue or otherwise inflate Diebold's  financial  performance.  As described  below, 

these fraudulent  accounting practices  included, but were not limited to, (i) improper  use of "bill 

and hold"  accounting; (ii)recognitionof   revenue on a lease agreement  subject to a side buy-back 

agreement;  (iii) manipulating reserves and accruals;  (iv) improperly delaying  and capitalizing 

expenses;  and (v)  writing up the value of used inventory. 

                      Fraudulent  Revenue Recognition       --F-Term Orders 

        10.    From at least 2002 through 2007, Diebold prematurely  recognized  revenue on 

many  of the transactions  it called "F-tenn"  orders.  Diebold  recognized  revenue on F-tenn 

orders, or Factory orders, when it shipped products  from its factory to a Diebold  warehouse. 

Under generally  accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"),  normally a product must       be shipped 

to the customer  or services must be rendered before revenue can be  recognized. 

        11.    With a "bill and hold" transaction,  however,  revenue can be recognized  on the 

sale of products  prior to delivery to a customer if the "bill and hold" criteria are met.  The criteria 

for a bill and hold transaction include:  (i) the buyer, not the seller, requests that the transaction 

be on a bill and hold basis; (ii) the buyer has a substantial  business purpose for ordering  on a bill 

and hold basis; (iii) there is a fixed delivery schedule  that is reasonable  and consistent  with the 

buyer's  business  purpose; (iv) the seller does not retain any specific  performance  obligations 

such that the earnings process is incomplete;  and (v) the products are ready for shipment. 

                                                  3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

        12.     Diebold  prematurely  recognized  revenue on certain F-term orders by improperly 

using bill and hold accounting.  A significant  number   of Diebold's  F-term orders failed to satisfy 

the stringent  bill and hold criteria. 

        13.     Under GAAP, to use bill and hold accounting,  the customer,  not Diebold,  must 

request that the transaction  be on a bill and hold basis, and the customer  must have a substantial 

business purpose for ordering   on a bill and hold basis.  Many of Diebold's  F-term orders failed  to 

satisfy these criteria. 

        14.     With many F-term orders, Diebold  asked customers  to sign Diebold's  form 

contract -~ its standard  Memorandum   of Agreement  ("MOA")  -- which contained  a boilerplate 

clause stating  that the customer  had requested  Diebold to hold items for the customer's 

convenience.  Diebold  then recognized  revenue  when the company  shipped the products  from its 

factory to its warehouse  in accordance  with a "ship  to warehouse"  date contained  in the MOA 

Notwithstanding  the language  in the MOA, Diebold's  accounting  was not in accordance  with 

GAAP because  generally  Diebold's  customers  had not requested  that the transaction  be on a bill 

and hold basis. 

        15.    In addition,  certain F-term orders also failed to meet other bill and hold criteria. 

For example,  to recognize  revenue on  a bill and hold basis, there must be a fixed delivery 

schedule,  the seller must not retain any specific performance  obligations  such that the earnings 

process is incomplete,  and the products  must be complete  and ready for shipment. 

        16.    Many   of Diebold's  F-term contracts  often failed to meet these criteria.  For 

instance, these transactions  generally did not have fixed delivery schedules.  Moreover,  in certain 

instances when Diebold recognized  revenue    on ATMs shipped from its factory     to its warehouse, 

the ATMs were not complete  because software  had not yet been installed and/or quality testing 

                                                  4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

had not yet been performed.   In addition, on certain occasions, Diebold recognized  revenue on a 

bill and hold basis on certain products and services for which bill and hold accounting  is never 

appropriate, including software orders and professional services. 

        17.    The bill and hold criteria are well established.  Certain Diebold management 

knew, or were reckless  in not knowing, that many F-term orders failed to satisfy the criteria  for 

bill and hold accounting, and that Diebold was prematurely recognizing revenue on those 

transactions. 

                                    "Pulling  in" F-Term orders 

        18.    At certain times from the period 2004 through 2006, in connection  with Diebold's 

efforts to meet its earnings forecasts, Diebold management looked for ways to recognize  revenue 

even earlier on some F-term orders.   In some instances, Dieboldmanufactured  and shipped 

products to the warehouse before the shipment dates contained    in the MOAs.  Diebold would 

then record revenue on the products it shipped  to its warehouse prematurely.  This practice was 

known as "pulling  in" F-terms. 

        19.    The amount   of orders "pulled in" varied by quarter, but in many instances  was 

done purposely to inflate earnings in order to meet forecasts. In these instances, Diebold's 

management instructed Diebold's  manufacturing  personnel to manufacture products early, 

without customer notice or approval, for the purpose  of recognizing revenue   in an earlier 

reporting period.  For example, in June 2004 (the last month  of the second quarter), Diebold 

"pulled in" about $3.4 million of F-term orders that were scheduled to ship to the warehouse    in 

July 2004, and in December 2004 (the last month    of the fourth quarter), Diebold "pulled  in" 

about $3.8 million of F-term orders that were scheduled to ship to the warehouse in January· 

2005.  These "pull ins" inflated Diebold's  earnings in these quarters by about $1.1 million  and 

about $1.3 million, respectively. 

                                                 5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        20.     Diebold  finance  and manufacturing  personnel  raised concerns  about this  practice 

on several  occasions.  Indeed, in a March 2005 email to company  management,  a Diebold 

manufacturing  manager  raised concerns  and stated  that "my  employees  in scheduling  believe  that 

manufacturing  these orders without customer  approval  to pull the order  in is a violation of 

Sarbanes-Oxley."  Notwithstanding  these concerns,  no action was taken at the time  to end this 

practice.  Diebold mew,   or was reckless  in not knowing,  that "pulling  in" F-term  orders  was not 

in accordance  with GAAP,  and that Diebold  was prematurely     recog~izing  revenue on  these 

transactions. 

                            Converting I-Term  Drdersto    F-Term orders 

        21.    In 2004, Diebold created  a standard  form contract  to convert  I-term orders  -­

orders for which Diebold  recognized revenue  upon installation  at the customer  site -- to bill and 

hold transactions.  When a Diebold customer  agreed to sign this form, Diebold  improperly 

recognized  revenue  on the transaction  when the product  shipped  from its factory  to its 

warehouse.  Under GAAP,  to use bill and hold accounting,  the customer,  not Diebold,  must 

request  that the transaction  be on a bill and hold basis, and the customer  must have  a substantial 

business  purpose  for ordering  on a bill and hold  basis.  Diebold's  conversion  practice  was 

inconsistent  with GAAP.  Diebold  routinely  requested  that customers  execute  these contract 

modification  forms to convert  I-term orders  to purported  bill and hold transactions,  in order to 

inflate earnings. 

       22.     For example,  in the fourth  quarter of 2004, at the direction of company 

management,  a Diebold  sales representative  had Customer  A sign a bill and hold form to convert 

a $4 million  I-term order to a purported  bill and hold  transaction.  On a conference  call, the sales 

representative  advised  company  management  that Customer  A had signed  the bill and hold  form 

(which  by its terms required  payment  upon receipt of the invoice sent when Diebold  shipped  the 

                                                  6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 products to its warehouse),  but that Customer  A would not pay for the ATMs before they were 

 installed.  Company  management  nevertheless  improperly  recognized revenue  on the transaction. 

         23.     Diebold recognized  revenue on this transaction  in the fourth quarter of 2004. 

 Even though Customer  A was invoiced in the fourth quarter     of 2004, it did not pay for this 

 transaction until the second quarter of 2005 (after Diebold delivered  and installed  the products), 

 This transaction  inflated Diebold's  earnings  in the fourth quarter of 2004 by about $2 million. By 

 prematurely  including the revenue from the Customer  A transaction,  Diebold  was able to report 

 that it met the low end of the quarter's  projected  earnings.  Without the revenue from the 

 Customer  A transaction,  Diebold would have  missed  its projected earnings. 

         24.    Diebold  management  encouraged  its sales force, often on "make  the quarter" 

. calls, to requestthat  customers  execute these forms notwithstanding concerns  raised by sales' 

 personnel.  For example,  in June 2005, a Diebold sales manager wrote an email     to Diebold 

 management  stating that the sales staff was "trying  to help Diebold's  revenue recognition  drive," . 

 but raised concerns  about asking customers  to sign bill and hold forms in instances  when 

 Diebold was at fault for installation  delays.  The email was forwarded  to an officer of the 

 company, who took no action at the time    to correct  this improper practice.  Another employee 

 responded to the sales manager's original  email stating:  "This  is like the crazy aunt in the cellar 

 no one wants to talk about." 

                       Diebold's   $7.5 Million Revenue Recognition Reserve 

        25.     In January 2004, as part  of its 2003 year-end audit, Diebold's  auditor tested a 

 sample  of Diebold's  2003 bill and hold transactions.  This testing found that Diebold  had' 

 prematurely recognized  revenue on certain transactions,  and that in certain instances Diebold had 

 recognized revenue on transactions  inconsistent  with company policy.    In response,  Diebold 

 established  a reserve representing  $7.5 million of profit margin  in the last quarter of 2003.  This 

                                                   7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

reserve was derived by extrapolating  the errors found in the auditor's  sample.  The creation of 

this reserve was not in accordance  with GAAP as the revenue errors identified  in the audit should 

have been reversed. 

        26.     In February 2004, management  learned that Diebold had prematurely  recognized 

revenue in the fourth quarter of 2003, on a $5.2 million order from Customer    B.  This had not 

been identified as an error by the company's  auditor during its testing.  Notwithstanding,  Diebold 

management  did not correct this error or adjust the $7.5 million profit margin reserve that the 

company had established  to account for errors the auditor had found during its audit, even though 

this error demonstrated  that the reserve was inadequate. 

                 Diebold's  Failure to Disclose Its Revenue Recognition Practices 

        27.     Prior to 2007, Diebold  never disClosed tbshareholders  that it had any bill and 

hold transactions,  even though purported  bill and hold transactions constituted  a material portion 

of Diebold's  revenues. 

        28.    After Staff Accounting  Bulletin  104 was published in December  2003 (which, 

among other things, reiterated  the criteria for bill and hold accounting), Diebold  management 

became concerned  that its revenue recognition  practices would not withstand scrutiny.   In 2004, 

Diebold  made changes to its revenue recognition  practices.  Although these changes did not 

eliminate  Diebold's  improper use of bill and hold accounting on certain F-term transactions,  the 

changes did reduce the number    of F-term transactions. 

       29.     Under Diebold's  revised revenue recognition  practices, in North America an order 

could only be designated  as an F-term order  if the customer signed a new standard  MOA, which 

required a larger percentage of payment from the customer before delivery and installation.  The 

MOA also contained  a new boilerplate Clause stating that "Customer  requests that Diebold hold 

Items purchased  for the Customer's  convenience  until shipment to the Customer's  destination." 

                                                 8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

        30.    Diebold management knew that these changes would result in fewer F-term 

orders, as they envisioned  that many customers would not be willing to agree to the new terms. 

Diebold's  internal financial analysts informed  management  that the proposed changes to the 

company's  revenue recognition  practices  --with the predicted sharp drop-off ofF-term   contracts 

--would significantly reduce 2004 revenues. 

        31.    To improperly smooth the negative impact to earnings from these changes, 

Diebold financial management  decided to stagger the implementation     of the new practices. 

Starting in April 2004, Diebold started applying the new practices to orders from its larger 

national bank customers.  Diebold decided to wait untilJuly  2004 to apply the practices  to orders 

from its smaller regional bank customers. 

        32.    However,certainDieboldpersonnel       began applying the new revenue recognition 

practices to some regional bank orders earlier than management planned, resulting in fewer 

orders being designated as F-term, and thus less revenue being recognized.  When management 

discovered this and realized that the company would not meet its earnings forecast for the third 

quarter of 2004, Diebold improperly made an $18.8 million  top-level journal  entry that pulled in 

revenue that would not have been recognized until subsequent quarters under    its new practices. 

As a result of this improper entry, Diebold met its revised earnings forecast in the third quarter of 

2004. 

       33.     Diebold never disclosed in 2004 these changes   to its revenue recognition 

practices, or the impact these changes had on Diebold's  reported revenues.  In at least one 

meeting Diebold management discussed the issue     of publicly disclosing these revenue 

recognition changes.  Diebold management, however, decided against disclosure  because they 

were concerned disclosure  would create an "investor  relations issue." 

                                                 9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

                 The Impact  of Diebold's Premature  Revenue Recognition  Practices 

         34.     In 2008, Diebold  restated  its financial  statements  for the reporting  periods  from 

 2003 through  the first quarter of 2007, and announced  that going forward  it would  recognize 

" revenue  upon customer  acceptance  of products  at a customer  location.  In its restatement, 

 Diebold  retroactively  applied  this new revenue  recognition  policy  which alone  resulted  in a 

 decrease  of the company's  total earnings  before  taxes of $56.2 million;  Diebold's  premature 

 recognition of revenue  on  certain F-term  orders  resulted  in revenue  and earnings  misstatements 

 in each of Diebold's  quarterly  and annual  financial  statements  from 2003 through  the first 

 quarter of2007.   In 2003 alone,  Diebold  overstated  its earnings  before  taxes  by $29.5  million 

 due to premature  recognition  of revenue. 

                Fraudulent   Revenue  Recognition     --The  Cash Depot Transaction 

         35.     In the first quarter of 2005,  D"iebold entered  into an agreement  to lease a portfolio 

 of ATMs  located  in Company  C stores  to a private  company,  Cash Depot,  for $5 million"    In this 

 transaction,  Diebold  entered  into a side agreement  with Cash Depot, giving  Cash  Depot  the right 

 to sell the ATMs  back to Diebold  at a later date. 

        36.     Diebold  improperly  recognized  all $5 million  in revenue  on this transaction  in the 

 first quarter of 2005, which accounted  for approximately  8%   of Diebold's  total  pretax earnings 

 that quarter. 

        37.     Under GAAP,  revenue  cannot  be recognized  on a transaction  that has significant 

future obligations  or contingencies,  such as a buy-back  agreement.  Accordingly,  as the Cash 

Depot  transaction  was subject  tb buy-back  agreement,  it was improper  for Diebold  to recognize 

$5 million  in revenue  on this transaction  in the first quarter of 2005.  At the time Diebold 

recognized  revenue  on this transaction,  Diebold  management  knew, or was reckless  in not 

                                                   10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

knowing, that the sale was subject  to a buy-back agreement,  and that the company's  recognition 

of revenue on the transaction was improper. 

                              Manipulating    Reserves  and Accruals 

                     Release  ofthe $7.5 Million  Revenue Recognition  Reserve 

        38.     As described in paragraphs  25 to 26, Diebold established a reserve  of profit 

margin  of $7.5 million in the last quarter of 2003.  Under GAAP, ifthis  had been a properly 

recorded deferred revenue liability, Diebold should have released the reserve when the 

extrapolated  revenue associated  with these transactions  was properly earned by Diebold. 

However, over the course   of 2004, Diebold management  released the reserve,  without: any 

legitimate accounting  analysis, to fill shortfalls  in operating results. 

        39.    Diebold released   $1 million of the reserve in the first quarter 2004, $1.25 million 

in the second quarter of 2004, and the remaining $5.25 million in the third quarter  of 2004. 

Diebold exactly met analyst earnings  consensus  for the firsttwo  quarters and revised analyst 

earnings consensus  in the third quarter.  Diebold knew, or was reckless in not knowing,  that 

these entries had no legitimate accounting  basis, and they were recorded to fraudulently  manage 

Diebold's  reported earnings. 

                                     Under-accrued  Liabilities 

       40.     Under GAAP,  an issuer   is required to accrue for anticipated  liabilities.  During the 

relevant time period, Diebold inflated earnings  by failing to accrue for known liabilities. For 

example, Diebold management knew that the liability account for the company's  Long Term 

Incentive Plan ("LTIP")  -- an employee  benefit plan intended  to reward long term company 

performance  -- was under-accrued  for much   of 2002 and 2003.  Diebold's  management  knew, or 

was reckless in not knowing, that the company  had not properly accounted  for the LTIP liability. 

For example,  in a May  9,2003  email from one officer to another, the officer explained  that 

                                                 11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

"GAAP requires variable accounting for the LTIP,  so technically each quarter we should  be 

adjusting the accrual to reflect expected shares to be earned on a pro-rata basis times the price  of 

the stock at quarter-end."  At the time of this email, the officer's  calculations  indicated  that the 

LTIP accrual was under-accrued  by at least $5 million. 

        41.    To accrue for the LTIP in 2003 without negatively impacting earnings,  Diebold 

offset the liability by improperly reducing other accounts,  including an unreconciled  accounts 

payable account and an unreconciled  deferred  revenue account.  Indeed, when Diebold 

management made one such $1.2 million off-setting journal  entry in May 2003, the description 

in the notes to that journal entry was:  "to fund aLTIP  reserve."  In 2003 alone, Diebold 

management's  manipulation    of these accounts had the effect of improperly  under-accruing 

Diebold's  liabilities; arid overstatingDiebold's  reported pre-tax earnings by at least $16 million. 

       42.     From at least 2002 through  2005, Diebold also knew, or was reckless  in not 

knowing, that it failed to properly accrue for other liabilities,  including its North American  sales 

commission  accrual (commissions  to be paid to sales personnel) and its team incentive accrual 

(incentive pay to be paid to service personnel).  In 2005, Diebold  restated  its financial  statements 

to correct errors in certain accounts for the years 2002 to 2004 and the first quarter of 2005, 

including the North American sales commission  accrual account (which in 2005 had been 

materially underaccrued  by $11.4 million).   In a letter to the audit committee,  a Diebold officer 

acknowledged  that this account was underaccrued because  "[an accounting  manager]  felt that 

given the need to meet forecast, these [commission  accrual] adjustments  should  be deferred  until 

a later date." 

                                   Manipulating  Other Reserves 

       43.     Under GAAP,  a liability should be released upon the occurrence     of a specified 

event or when the estimate should  be revised in response to  new information.  Moreover, 

                                                 12
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

maintaining general  or excess reserves (i.e., cookie jar reserves) are expressly  prohibited  under 

GAAP. 

        44.     From 2002 to 2006, Diebold management  manipulated certain  reserves     in order to 

manage earnings.  For example, to meet internal forecasts, a Diebold accounting  manager 

improperly reduced the Master Purchase Agreement  accrual (a liability account established  for 

payment   of customer rebates) to inflate net income in both the fourth quarter of 2003 and the 

fourth quarter of 2004.  Diebold knew, or was reckless   in not knowing that, there was no 

legitimate accounting basis for either of these entries.  Indeed, both entries were subsequently 

reversed in later quarters. 

        45.     Diebold also used cookie  jar reserves to manage earnings.  For example, Diebold 

.established a $4;5 million corporate obsolescence  and excess inventory account.  This corporate 

inventory account was a cookie jar reserve that Diebold knew, or was reckless in not knowing, 

had no  legitimate accounting ba~is. 

                        Improperly  Delaying  and Capitalizing    Expenses
 

                                     Division 35 and CAP 250
 

        46.    During the relevant time period, Diebold management failed to recognize certain 

expenses as incurred, and instead improperly deferred these expenses or spread the expenses 

over several reporting periods, which artificially  increased net income in several fiscal years. 

Diebold engaged in improper expense deferrals in at least two accounts:  the "Division  35" and 

"CAP 250" accounts. 

       47.     Division 35 was a finished goods inventory account.  From 2003 through 2005, 

Diebold management  knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that the value     of the account was 

overstated.  Nevertheless,  Diebold improperly failed to reconcile the account until 2005.  Then, 

in 2005, instead of restating its prior financial statements to correct the material error in the 

                                                 13
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

account and record expenses  in the proper reporting  periods  as required under GAAP, Diebold 

fraudulently  spread $15 million  of expenses over two quarters in 2005.  The overstatement   of the 

Division 35 account inflated Diebold's earnings  by $4.3 million in 2003, and more than $6.2 

million in periods prior to 2003. 

        48.     CAP 250 was an installation accounting  system, primarily consisting   of two 

accounts accruing for the cost  of installation.  By  at least 2004, Diebold's  management  knew 

that one of the CAP 250 accounts was unreconciled  since at least 2002.    As with Division 35, 

Diebold management  did not reconcile the account until 2005.  Then,    as with Division 35, 

Diebold management  did not restate its prior financial statements to correct the material erroras 

was required under GAAP, but instead improperly  booked a series     of entries totaling 

approximately  $9 million during 2005.  The overstatement    of this  CAP 250 account inflated 

Diebold's  earnings by $2.1 million in 2004, $2.2 million in 2003, and $4.4 million  in periods 

prior to 2003. 

                                        The Oracle Project 

       49.     In 2002, Diebold began a project,  which   is still ongoing, to replace many of its 

older internal software systems  with Oracle software.  Under GAAP, capitalization    of a software 

asset requires companies  to properly capture internal and external costs involved  with the various 

stages of software development.  Consequently,  Dieboldwas  permitted to capitalize  certain costs 

associated with the Oracle project.  However, from 2003 through 2006, Diebold  improperly 

capitalized  information  technology  costs that should have been expensed  in the periods they 

were incurred. 

       50.     In certain quarters when Diebold's  earnings were short offorecast,  Diebold 

management  made top-level entries to fraudulently  capitalize additional expenses  to the Oracle 

project.  These improper  "additions,"  which often were round numbers such    as $1 million, had 

                                                 14
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

the effect of materially  reducing  reported  expenses,  and thus increasing reported  earnings. 

Diebold's  improper  capitalization of expenses  to the Oracle project  increased  Diebold's  pre-tax 

earnings  in 2003,2004,  and 2005, by $.5 million,  $3 million,  and $6.8 million,  respectively. 

                                   Used  Equipment  Write-Ups 

        51.    Under GAAP,  used equipment  inventory  should be valued at the lower      of cost or 

market.  From 2003 to 2005,  Diebold management  improperly  "wrote-up"  the value      of certain 

used inventory,  such as used ATMs.  These  "write-ups"  had the effect   of reducing cost of goods 

sold and thus inflating  earnings. The company  used these "write-ups"  in order to meet forecasts. 

        52.    For example,  in the second  quarter of 2004, Diebold  wrote up the value   of used 

equipment  inventory  by $1 million  (and thus increased  net income by $1 million)  to inflate 

earnings  to meetfbr.ecasts.. Inde~d, an accounting  manager  wrote in a July 13,2004   email: 

        I followed  up with [a company  officer]  this morning,  the primary  reason  we needed  to 
       book  the used equipmentre-valuation   was due to two issues: 
        1-TFE   [a recent Diebold  acquisition]  missing  their OP forecast by 300k 
       2 - The overall  corp tax rate was a little higher than forecast  causing  an approx  $500K 
        problem  at Net Income (as a result  we need  a little more NIBT to deliver  the required Net 
       Income.  [sic] 

       53.     In another  example,  in the fourth quarter of 2003, Diebold  improperly  wrote up 

the value of parts contained  in some used  ATMs   by $650,000.  Tellingly,  these parts were never 

removed  from the ATMs,  and the ATMs      were  later scrapped. 

       54.     Furthermore,  Diebold  improperly  wrote up the value   of other used equipment 

inventory (and inflated  earnings)  by $750,000  in the fourth quarter of 2004 and $1.2  million in 

the first quarter of 2005. 

       55.     Diebold  knew, or was reckless  in not knowing,  that these used equipment  "write­

ups," which were listed  on several  "opportunity  lists,"  had no legitimate  accounting  basis and 

were used improperly  to inflate Diebold's  earnings. 

                                                 15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

                                     Diebold's  2008  Restatement 

         56.     As result of Diebold's  improper, and in many instances fraudulent,  accounting 

 practices from at least 2002 to 2007, the financial statements that Diebold incorporated  into its 

 periodic filings and other materials  disseminated  to the investing public were materially  false and 

 misleading.  Diebold's  improper accounting practices  inflated the company's  reported pre-tax 

 earnings  by at least $127 million.  To correct the more recent misstatements,  on September  30, 

 2008, Diebold  restated  its financial statements  for the years 2003 through 2006, and the first 

 quarter of 2007, in its Form 10-K for 2007. 

                                   FIRST   CLAIM FOR RELIEF
 
                   Violations  of the Antifraud   Provisions  of the Exchange    Act
 
           (Section  10(b) [15 U.S.c.  § 78j(b)] and  Rule  lOb-5 [17 C.F.R.  § 240.10b-5])
 

         57.     Paragraphs  1 through 56 are realleged and incorporated by reference. 

         58.     By reason  of the conduct described above, Diebold,   in connection  with the 

. purchase or sale of securities,  by the use of any means or instrumentalities of interstate 

 commerce  or  of the mails, or of any facility of any national securities exchange,  directly  or 

 indirectly (a) employed  devices, schemes, or artifices to defraud; (b) made untrue statements   of 

 material fact or omitted  to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements  made, in 

 light of the circumstances  under which they were made, not misleading; or (c) engaged  in acts, 

 practices, or course of business which operates or would operate    as a fraud or deceit upon any 

 persons, including purchasers  or sellers of the securities. 

         59.    By reason   of the conduct described above, Diebold violated Exchange Act
 

 Section lOeb)  (15 v.s.c. § 78j(b)] and Exchange Act Rule  lOb-5 [17 C.F.R.     § 240.lOb-5].
 

                                                  16
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

                                SECOND     CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF
 
                  Violations of the Reporting   Provisions  of the Exchange   Act
 
       (Section  13(a) [15 U.S.c. § 78m(a)]  and  Rules  12b-20, 13a-l, 13a-11,  and  13a-13
 
              [17 C.F.R.  §§ 240.12b-20,  240.13a-l,  240.13a-11,  and  240.13a-13])
 

        60.    Paragraphs  1 through 56 are realleged and incorporated by reference. 

        61.    By reason  of the conduct described above, Diebold,  whose securities  were 

registered pursuant  to Section 12 of the Exchange Act [15  U.S.c. § 781], failed to file annual, 

current, and quarterly reports (on Forms 10-K, 8-K, and 10-Q) with the Commission  that were 

true and correct,  and failed to include material information  in its required statements  and reports 

as was necessary  to make therequired  statements,  in the light of the circumstances  under which 

they were made, not misleading. 

       62.     Byreason   of the conduct described above, Diebold violated Section  13(a)  of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.c.   § 78m(a)] and Exchange Act Rules  12b-20,     13a-l, 13a-ll, and 13a-13 

[17 C.F.R. §§ 240. 12b-20, 240.13a-l,  240.13a-ll,  and 240.13a-13]. 

                                THIRD    CLAIM     FOR   RELIEF
 
            Violations  of the Books  and Records   and  Internal Control   Provisions
 
                                      of the Exchange    Act
 
    (Sections  13(b)(2)(A) and  13(b)(2)(B)  [15 U.S.c.  §§ 78m(b)(2)(A)   and  78m(b)(2)(B)]
 

       63.     Paragraphs  1 through 56 are realleged and incorporated by  reference. 

       64.     By reason  of the conduct described above, Diebold,  whosesecuri ties were 

registered pursuant to Section 120f the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.    § 781]: 

               a)     failed to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which,  in 

       reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected the transactions  and dispositions of its 

       assets; 

               b)     failed to devised and maintain a system  of internal controls  sufficient  to 

       provide reasonable  assurances that (i) transactions  were recorded as necessary  to permit 

       preparation of financial statements  in conformity  with generally  accepted  accounting 

                                                17 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

        principles  or any other criteria  applicable  to such statements,  and (ii) to maintain 

        accountability of assets. 

        65.    By  reason  of the conduct  described  above,  Diebold  violated  Sections  13(b)(2)(A) 

and 13(b)(2)(B)  of the Exchange  Act [15  U.S.c.  §§ 78m(b)(2)(A)  and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

                                     PRAYER FOR RELIEF 

               WHEREFORE,  the Commission  respectfully  requests  that this Court  enter  a final 

judgment: 

                                                  I. 

       Permanently  enjoining  Diebold  from violating,  directl)/or  indirectly: 

       J.      Exchange  Act Section  lOeb) [15   u.s.c. § 78j(b)]  and Exchange  Act Rule  lOb-5 

       [17  C.P.R. § 240.lOb-5]; 

       2.      Section  13(a) of the Exchange  Act [15  U.S.c.  § 78m(a)]  and Exchange  Act 

       Rules  12b-20,  13a-l, 13a-ll, and  13a-13 [17 C.P.R.  §§  240.12b-20,  240.13a-l, 

       240.13a-ll,  and 240.13a-13]; 

       3.      Sections  13(b)(2)(A)  and  13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange  Act [15  U.S.c. 

       §§  78m(b)(2)(A)  and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

                                                 II. 

       Ordering  Diebold  to pay a civil penalty  pursuant  to Section 2l(d)(3) of the Exchange  Act 

[15 U.S.c. § 78u(d)(3)]; and 

                                                 18
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

                                                III. 

       Granting  such other  and further relief as the Court deems just and appropriate. 

                                                 Respectfully  submitted, 

                                                 Scott W.  Friestad 
                                                 Robert  B. Kaplan 
                                                 Brian  O. Quinn (DC Bar No. 450013) 
                                                 David  J. Gottesman 
                                                 Chris  pher G. Swart 

                                                 Attorneys  for Plaintiff 
                                                 Securities  and Exchange  Commission 

                                                 SEC Division   of Enforcement 
                                                 100 F. Street, NE 
                                                 Washington,  DC  20549-4010 
                                                 (202) 551-4535  (Bender) 

Dated:  June 2, 2010 

                                                19
 
