---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED    STATES   DISTRICT    COURT
 
                        SOUTHERN      DISTRICT    OF  NEW   YORK
 

                                                        )
UNITED   STATES    SECURITIES                           )
AND  EXCHANGE      COMMISSION,                          )
                                                        )
                                   Plaintiff,           )
                                                        )       CIVIL  ACTION   NO.  __
 
                     v.                                 )
                                                        )       COMPLAINT
 
BRIAN   J. KEARNS   and                                 )
BRUCE   J. VAN  FOSSEN,                                 ) 
                                                        ) 
                                   Defendants.          )
                                                        )
 
----~------------) 

       The Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission")  alleges the following against 

Defendants Brian J. Kearns ("Kearns") and Bruce J. Van Fossen ("Van Fossen"): 

                             SUMMARY      OF  ALLEGATIONS 

       1.     This is a case in which Defendants participated in a secret fraudulent billing scheme 

in order to improve the fmancial performance ofMedQuist Inc. ("MedQuist" or "Company")  and 

deceive investors.  From 1999 to 2004, MedQuist, a medical transcription company based in New 

Jersey, systematically and secretly inflatedits bills to customers in order to increase revenues and 

profit margins.  MedQuist inflated the bills by increasing the number oflines it claimed to have 

transcribed.  The Company was able to carry out this scheme for several years because the unit of 

measure upon which many bills were based-known   as an AAMT   line-included invisible 

characters and computer keystrokes that could not be verified by MedQuist's  customers.  Knowing 

that its customers were unable to verify line counts on bills, the Company  stopped actually counting 

AAMT lines and started secretly manipulating the line counts on bills to reach specific revenue and 

margin targets. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       2.      Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knew      ofthis billing scheme and, instead of 

stopping the fraud, took steps to further and conceal the scheme.  Defendants Kearns and Van 

Fossen misled MedQuist's  independent auditors into believing that the Company was actually 

counting AAMT lines,   just as it was required to do under its customer contracts.  Defendants also 

lied to the auditors by telling them they knew ofno allegations offraud orproblems with internal 

controls, when in truth they knew the AAMT line billing process lacked audit trails and knew  of 

employee and customer complaints    ofoverbilling and line count manipulation.  Defendants also 

misled shareholders and the public by stating in Commission  filings, press releases and earnings 

calls, that the Company's  revenues were based on contracted rates and increased sales to customers 

and that its strong financial performance was the result ofconservative and disciplined business 

practices. Intruth, the Company's  revenues and fmancial performance were due in part   to its secret 

manipulation of AAMT line counts    to meet revenue and profit margin targets. 

                                          VIOLATIONS 

       3.      By engaging in the conduct described below, Defendants Kearns and     Van  Fossen 

violated Section 17(a) ofthe Securities Act  and Sections lO(b) and 13(b)(5) ofthe Exchange Act 

and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2(a) [15 U.S.C.   §§ 77q(a), 78j(b), and 78m(b)(5) and  17 C.F.R. 

§§ 240.10b-5, 204. 13b2-1 , 240.13b-2-2(a)], and aided and abetted violations of Sections 13(a), 

13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and  13a-13   [15 

U.S.c. §§ 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B) and    17 C.F.R.  §§ 204. 12b-20, 204. 13a-1, 

240.13a-11, and 240. 13a-13].  Defendant Van Fossen also, in the alternative, aided and abetted 

violationsof Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5. 

                                                 2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                                 JURISDICTION  AND VENUE
 

       4.      The Commission brings this action pursuant to Sections 20(b), 20(d), and 20(e)  of 

the Securities Act and Sections 21(d) and 21(e) ofthe Exchange Act   [15 U.S.C. §§ 77t(b), 77t(d), 

77t(e),  78u(d), and 78u(e)], seeking ajudgment: 

               a.      Permanently restraining and enjoining each  of the Defendants from further 

       violations ofthe relevant provisions of the securities laws; 

               b.      Requiring Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen to pay a civil money penalty 

       pursuant to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act and Section 21(d) of the Exchange Act  [15 

       U.S.c.  §§ 77t(d) and §78u(d)]; and 

               c.      Prohibiting Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen from acting    as an officer or 

       director ofany issuer that has a class ofsecurities registered under Section 12ofthe 

       Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.    §781] or that is required to file reports by Section I5(d) ofthe 

       Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §780(d)]. 

       5.      The Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 20(b), 20(d), 20(e) 

and 22 of the Securities Act [15U.S.C.  §§ 77t(b), 77t(d), 77t(e) and 77v] and Sections21 (d), 21(e), 

and 27 of the Exchange Act  [15 U.S.c.  §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa].  Venue is proper under 

Section 22 of the Securities Act [15 U.S.c.  § 77v] and Section 27 ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 

78aa]. 

       6.      Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen, directly   or indirectly, made use ofthe means 

and instrumentalities ofinterstate commerce, of the mails, orof the facilities ofa national securities 

exchange in connection with the acts, practices, and courses ofbusiness alleged herein.  Certain of 

                                                 3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

these transactions, acts, practices and courses ofbusiness occurred  in the Southern District ofNew 

York, including, among other things, public sales ofMedQuist stock on the NASDAQ stock market 

based in New  York City. 

                                         DEFENDANTS 

       7.       Brian J. Kearns,  age 42, was the Treasurer and Chief Financial Officer of 

MedQuist from October 2000 through July 2004.  Kearns resides in Moorestown, New Jersey. 

       8.      Bruce  J. Van  Fossen,  age 47, was Vice President and Controller ofMedQuist  from 

1995 through 2005.  Van Fossen resides in Marlton, New Jersey. 

                                   STATEMENT        OF  FACTS
 

                                       The  Billing  Scheme
 

       9.      MedQuist performs medical transcription services by receiving dictated medical 

records from customers, usually hospitals, and keying them into computer programs called 

transcription platforms.  MedQuist has contracts with its customers governing how MedQuist will 

measure and bill the work.  Each contract specifies the unit MedQuist uses to measure the work 

(such as word, line, or report), the definition ofthe unit ofmeasure (such as howmany characters 

constitute a "line"), and the price per unit.  The contracts require that MedQuist bill the customer an 

amount equal to the number  of units transcribed multiplied by the price per unit. 

       10.     From 1998 to 2006, many ofMedQuist's  contracts required MedQuist      to use a unit 

ofmeasure called the AAMT line.  MedQuist's  contracts defined an AAMT line      as follows: 

       any line having 65 'characters,'  [where a] character is defined as any letter, number, 
       symbol or function key necessary for the [mal appearance and content   of a 
       document including, without limitation, the space bar, carriage return, underscore, 
       bold, and any character contained within the macro, header, or footer. A defmed line 
       is calculated by counting all characters contained within a document and simply 
                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

       dividing the total number  ofcharacters by 65 to arrive at the number of defined 
       lines. 

        11.    Because MedQuist's  contracts specifically stated that AAMT lines would be 

calculated by "counting all characters" and "simply dividing ... by 65", MedQuist was required   to 

count AAMT characters in order to bill in accordance with contracts. 

        12.    Because AAMT lines include invisible characters and fonnatting  codes peculiar   to 

the transcription platforms, MedQuist's  customers could not independently verify the AAMT     line 

totals in their bills by looking at their transcribed documents. 

        13.    From 1999 to 2004, MedQuist exploited the lack    of transparency in AAMT line 

counts to secretly inflate line counts on bills. 

        14.    Between December 1998 and January 1999, MedQuist established        an internal policy 

to stop counting AAMT characters and lines.  Its new policy was to derive the number   of AAMT 

lines billed to a customer from the number of lines it paid its transcriptionists to transcribe that 

customer's  work. 

       15.     MedQuist calculated transcriptionists'  pay by using a measure called the "payroll 

line."  A payroll line is not equal to an AAMT line. 

       16.     MedQuist's  newly adopted internal policy stated that for any piece oftranscription 

work, an AAMT line count equals twice the payroll line count.  This policy became known 

throughout the Company   as the "2-to-l  ratio" or the "2-to-l  Bill to Pay [BTP]" ratio. 

       17.     Because the change from counting AAMT lines to applying the 2-to-l  line ratio had 

the potential to increase billed line counts enough to be noticed by customers, the Company did not 

                                                 5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

implement  the policy uniformly  across all its AAMT    customers.  The Company  increased  the line 

count ratios of some customers  gradually over time. 

         18.    By  mid  1999, in addition to  the 2-to-l BTP ratio policy, MedQuist  instituted  a 

second internal billing policy, which required  that every  AAMT    account should   be billed $3.00 for 

every $1.00 MedQuist  paid to a transcriptionist.  This policy became  known  as the   "3-to-l  ratio" or 

3-to-l  margin ratio." 

         19.    In mid 1999, MedQuist  began further  adjusting line count ratios   in order to increase 

bills to customers  and to reach its revenue  and margin  targets set by the 3-to-l ratio policy. 

MedQuist  continued  to secretly adjust  line count ratios until 2004 or later. 

        20.     In or before August 2000, MedQuist  created a special internal  unit called Financial 

and Operational  Audit ("FOPA") to ensure  compliance  with the 2-to-l     BTP   ratio and 3-to-l margin 

ratio policies. FOP  A was  comprised   offour or five business analysts  who reviewed  billing  at each 

MedQuist  office and prepared written  reports detailing,  among other  things,  how  well an office was 

following the 2-to-l  BTP   ratio policy and meeting the revenue  and  gross margin  targets established 

by the 3-to-l  margin ratio policy.  These reports showed that  many   line count ratios were set higher 

than the unfounded   2-to-l BTP ratio.  Many   of the reports explicitly  recommended  that offices (1) 

.secretly or gradually increase line count ratios in order to improve  profit margins  and (2) set up 

customer  accounts  as AAMT     accounts  in order to improve management's  ability to manipulate  line 

counts and margins.  These reports also recommended  that the offices exercise  care in making 

changes because many clientS pay close attention    to bills.  The result ofthese  recommendations  was 

                                                    6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

that customers were billed more than they would have been billed had the Company actually 

counted AAMT lines in accordance with contract terms. 

       21.     The 2-to-l  BTP ratio policy and the 3-to-l  margin ratio policy worked a fraud on 

customers by secretly nullifying contracted rates through inflated line counts. As a result, 

customers unknowingly paid higher bills than they would have paid    ifthe Company had counted 

lines in accordance with contracts. 

       22.     MedQuist did not inform customers    or the investing public ofits ratio adjustments. 

In order to conceal the adjustments  from customers, MedQuist sometimes timed increases to line 

count ratios to occur in times ofhigh work volume, when customers would be less likely to 

question larger bills.  MedQuist sometimes secretly increased a customer's  line ratio after agreeing 

to a decrease in line price, in order to maintain revenues and gross profit margins.  MedQuist 

monitored the effect ofthese increases to line ratios to ensure its target gross margin on revenue 
                                                                                               I 
was met. 

       23.     The billing scheme came to light atter an employee complaint    on November  12, 

2003, caused MedQuist's  auditors to refuse to sign off on the Company's  financial statements, and 

prevented MedQuist from filing its 2003 annual report.  MedQuist's  first indication to the public of 

any potential wrongdoing came   on March  ·16, 2004, when MedQuist  disclosed that "an employee 

made assertions of potential improper billing practices by the Company," and that it had "delayed 

the filing of[its] Form 10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2003 pending completion     ofthe 

review as to the impact ofthese billing issues on [its] fmancial statements, and fmalization of[its] 

audited fmancial statements as of and for the year ended December  31, 2003."  Prior to March 16, 

                                                  7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

2004, MedQuist  concealed  its billing scheme from the investing  public and  shareholders.  The 

public [mally learned of the Company's  fraudulent  billing practices  on July 30 and August  3, 2004, 

when MedQuist  issued a press release and filed a  Fonn  8-K with the Commission  disclosing 

MedQuist's  secret use of ratios to affect profit margins. 

       24.     Since MedQuist's  March 2004 disclosure,  the Company      has approved  payment   of 

$75.8 million  in cash and credits to customers  to resolve  billing  disputes  arising  from the fraud. 

MedQuist  has also  paid $7.5 million  to settle a customer  class  action  lawsuit  (South Broward 

Hosp. Dist., et al. v. MedQuist  Inc., No. CV-04-7520- TJH- VBKx    (D. Cal. filed Sept. 9, 2004) and 

paid $6.6 million to settle  claims of various  agencies  and departments of the United  States 

Government.  In addition,  MedQuist  restated  its financials  for the period ofthe conduct  to reflect 

a $9.8 million  reduction in revenue. 

       Defendants'  Participation   in and Failure to Stop the Fraudulent Billing Scheme 

       25.     Defendant   Van  Fossen  was the Company's  controller  from  1995 through  2005.  As 

Controller,  Defendant Van  Fossen was  responsible  for billing accuracy and financial reporting. 

       26.     Defendant  Van Fossen knew in 1999     ofMedQuist's    2-to-l BTP  ratio policy  and the 

3-to-l  margin ratio policy.  Defendant  Van Fossen  also knew no later than  1999 that customer 

contracts  specified that AAMT  lines should be measured  by counting  AAMT     characters  and 

dividing by 65, that AAMT    lines were not visually  verifiable,  and that the Company was secretly 

using ratios to derive line counts rather than actually  counting AAMT   characters  and lines.  Van 

Fossen also knew that the Company  was manipulating  those ratios specifically   to meet certain 

revenue and margin targets, and frequently  used ratios that exceeded  the Company's   2-to-l BTP 

                                                  8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

ratio, which it 4lstituted as a replacement  for counting AAMT  lines as required in customer 

contracts. 

       29.     In or about July 2002, an employee told Defendant  Van Fossen that a MedQuist 

office in Oregon had been directed to secretly increase line count ratios, even above the unfounded 

2-to-1 ratio, in order to increase revenues  and margins.  Nevertheless,  Defendant  Van Fossen  did 

nothing to audit line count accuracy in that office or throughout  the Company  and  did nothing  to 

prevent future manipulations  of billed AAMT line counts. 

        30.    In or about April  or May  2003, another employee told Defendant  Van Fossen that a 

MedQuist  office in Alabama  had been directed to increase line count ratios to increase billed line 

counts, and thereby increase bills and profitability.  Nevertheless,  Defendant VanFossen   did 

                                                   9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

nothing to audit line count accuracy in that office or throughout the Company and did nothing to 

prevent future manipulations of billed AAMT line counts. 

       31.     Defendant Kearns joined MedQuist as its Treasurer and   Chief  Financial Officer on 

or about October 16,2000.  On or about October 18, 2000, Defendant Kearns attended a meeting 

during which the Chief Operating Officer discussed MedQuist's  2-to-l  BTP ratio and the 3-to-l 

gross margin policies. 

       32.     From about October 2000 through March 2002, Defendant Kearns discussed with 

the Chief Operating Officer the 2-to-l  BTP ratio policy, the revenue and gross margin targets 

established by the 3-to-l  margin ratio policy, the fact that the 2-to-l  BTP ratio was not applied 

uniformly across accounts, and the content of FOPA reports including office fmancial performance 

and margins. 

       33.     From about October 2000 through 2001, Defendant Kearns discussed with 

Defendant Van Fossen the 2-to-l  BTP ratio policy and the use  ofratios.instead ofcounting AAMT 

lines.  Both Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen regularly saw management reports that presented 

customer billed AAMT line totals in terms  of ratios rather than counts. 

       34.     From about October 2000 through early 2002, Defendant Kearns discussed with the 

director of FOPA the 2-to-l  BTP ratio policy, the revenue and gross margin targets established by 

the 3-to-l  margin ratio policy, the fact that the 2-to-l  BTP ratio was not applied uniformly across 

accounts, and the content ofFOPA reports including office fmancial performance and margins.     In 

addition, the two discussed the Company's  adjustments to ratios to increase line counts and 

revenue. 

                                                 10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       35.     In or about December  2000, Defendant  Keams received three FOPA reports  from 

the director ofFOP A.  One  of these reports recommended  that the line count ratios for certain 

AAMT    line customers be increased gradually and surreptitiously  to comply with MedQuist's  2-to-l 

BTP ratio policy.  The result ofthis recommendation  was that customers were billed   more  than they 

would have been billed had the Company actually counted     AAMT    lines in accordance with contract 

terms. 

        36.    In or about February 2002,  FOPA   analysts sent copies of all final reports to 

Defendant Keams,  who was preparing to assume responsibility  for the group.  These reports 

showed that AAMT     line count ratios varied from account to account and that many  AAMT    line 

customers had line count ratios set higher than the unfounded  2-to-l  BTP ratio.  Several reports 

explicitly recommended  that offices secretly or gradually increase  line count ratios, even above 2­

to-I,  in order to improve profit margins.  The result ofthese recommendations  was that customers 

were billed more than they  would have been billed had the Company  actually counted   AAMT     lines 

in accordance with contract terms. 

       37.     In or about March 2002, Defendant  Keams received  at least three emails from 

FOPA analysts and two FOPA reports.  These reports  contained recommendations  to increase line 

count ratios on AAMT   line accounts to meet  or exceed the 3-to-l  gross margin  policy and increase 

revenues, to make these ratio increases in times ofhigh volume  so that customers  would not notice 

the resulting billing increases, and to set customer accounts on the AAMT line unit  ofmeasure  in 

order to improve management's  ability to manipulate  line counts  and margins.  These reports  also 

recommended  that the offices exercise care in making  changes because  many   clients pay close 

                                                 11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

attention to bills.  The result ofthese recommendations  was that customers were billed more than 

they would have been billed had the Company actually counted AAMT lines      in accordance with 

contract terms. 

       38.     By about July 2002, a new director of FOPA had seen the recommendations  in prior 

reports about secretly increasing line count ratios to improve profit margins.  He met with 

Defendant Kearns in or about July 2002, pointed out that recommendation  language in a report, and 

told Defendant Kearns that he found it troubling.  Specifically, he pointed Defendant Kearns to a 

recommendation that an office increase ratios in times ofwork volume increases to avoid customer 

notice.  This report also recommended the office bill clients on the AAMT line to "increase 

management's  leverage in adjusting ratios and account setups" and increase revenues.  Defendant 

Kearns agreed with the new director that future reports should not contain similar language, but 

took no further steps. 

       39.     Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knew or were reckless in not knowing that the 

Company was not measuring AAMT lines by counting in accordance with contracts, and that it was 

secretly increasing line count ratios to improve revenues and profit margins.  Defendants Kearns 

and Van Fossen assisted or failed to stop the secret manipulation ofline counts. 

                      Customer and Employee Complaints  About Billing 

       40.     From 1999 to 2004, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knew       of numerous 

complaints of billing fraud, allegations ofoverbilling and unverifiable line counts.  Despite their 

knowledge, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen did nothing to audit line counts, ensure AAMT line 

                                                12
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

count accuracy and billing accuracy,  or ensure appropriate  internal  controls over the billing process 

to prevent and detect billing fraud through manipulation  of line count ratios. 

       41.     In or about October  1999, Defendant  Van Fossen  knew    ofa dispute with a customer 

who alleged that MedQuist  had overbilled  them by inflating its AAMT    line counts, and as a result, 

had withheld payment for six months    ofinvoices totaling $850,000. 

       42.     In or about April 2000, another customer complained  to Defendant  Van Fossen that 

it could not verify its AAMT  line counts and that the Company   had errors in its billing process. 

Defendant Van Fossen told the customer  that   "an AAMT    count is based on the number   of 

characters on the page and do [sic] not represent just visible characters."  Defendant Van Fossen, 

however,  did not tell the customer that MedQuist  based its bills on ratios designed to reach revenue 

and margin targets rather than on AAMT    character counts. 

       43.·    In or about March 2001, Defendant Van Fossen knew       of yet another dispute with a 

customer who alleged overbilling  and terminated its  relationship  with MedQuist  as a result. 

       44.     On  or about September  10,2001,  Defendants  Keams  and    Van  Fossen received  a 

copy of a senior staff meeting presentation that included a report on why customers  had left 

MedQuist  for other transcription  companies.  The report showed that  of the sixteen former 

customers  who gave reasons for leaving, ten described billii:lg problems and irregularities, 

including: MedQuist's  "fraudulent  billing practices";  that MedQuist  "could not justify billing";  and 

that MedQuist  was "unable to reconcile  billings." 

                                                  13
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

        45.     In or about March 2002, MedQuist's  Chief Operating Officer infonned Defendants 

 Kearns and Van Fossen that MedQuist employees were "jockeying"  bill-to-pay ratios   and losing 

 customers. 

        46.     In or about March 2002, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen were told     by the 

 Company's  General Counsel that another AAMT line customer had sued MedQuist for $200,000 

 alleging·fraudulent overbilling. 

        47.     In or about July 2002, an employee told Defendant Van Fossen that a MedQuist 

 office in Oregon had been directed to secretly increase line count ratios, even above the unfounded 

 2-to-1 ratio, in order to increase revenues and margins. 

        48.     On or about December  12,2002,  a MedQuist vice president complained    of  billing 

 irregularities, claiming that she "and other MedQuist employees have been asked to impose general 

 bill increases to clients as a way ofincreasing MedQuist's  revenue without any basis in the 

 underlying client contracts." 

        49.     In or about December 2002, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen and other 

 Company officers and executives learned  ofthe Vice President's  complaint.  DefendantsKearns 

.and Van Fossen conducted a purported review   of the Vice President's  complaint.  However, the 

review did not examine the accuracy   ofline counts or the validity ofadjustments to line count 

ratios, and Defendant VanFossen  reported that he found no billing problems.  Defendant Kearns 

 and Van Fossen knew that the review did not examine the accuracy   of line counts or the validity of 

 adjustments to line count ratios.  Defendants Kearns and VanFossen   knew or were reckless in not 

knowing that without such an examination, the review was ineffective. 

                                                 14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

       50.     As a result ofher complaint and the company's  lack of remedial actions, the Vice 

President refused to sign internal certifications ofCompany accounts for the fourth quarter of2002 

and the first two quarters of2003.  Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knew that she refused to 

sign these certifications. 

       51.     Between February 7 and February 10,2003,  Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen, 

and other Company officers and executives, learned that an employee in a MedQuist office in 

Pennsylvania had complained   ofintentional secret adjustments to line count ratios and billing 

overcharges.  On or before February 21, 2003, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knew that the 

employee had made a previous complaint   of billing fraud at the Pennsylvania office that had not 

been investigated. Inthis earlier complaint, the employee alleged that the MedQuist office in 

Pennsylvania had overbilled approximately 34 customer accounts over a four-year period   of time 

for a total of $7.22 million. 

       52.     Soon after learning ofthe employee's  February 2003 complaint, Defendant Kearns 

and Van Fossen directed another Company employee to conduct a purported review      ofthe 

allegations.  Defendant Van Fossen helped design the review procedure, and Defendant Kearns 

approved it. 

       53.     On  or before February 11,2003,  Defendant Van Fossen looked at the line ratios of 

customers at the Pennsylvania office and saw that ratios varied from 1.4 to 1 to 4.56 to 1 and that. 

approximately 37%   ofthe customers had ratios that exceeded 2 to 1. 

       54.     On or before February 12,2003,  the Company employee who was performing the 

review told Defendant Kearns that a January 2002 internal FOPA review    ofthe Pennsylvania office 

                                                15
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

had recommended  secret changes to line count ratios to increase revenue and profit margins and 

that line count ratios at that office had in fact been increased without any audit trails or 

documentary support.  That same day, Defendant Kearns learned from the manager      of the 

Pennsylvania office that line count ratios had been changed.  The Company employee     who 

'performed the review also told Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen that the billing process had no 

audit trails, making it difficult or impossible to determine ifthere was overbilling.  Despite knowing 

of ratio changes and the lack ofaudit trails, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen did not examine, or 

direct the examination of, line count accuracy or the validity ofadjustments to line count ratios. 

Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen also did not take steps   to correct the absence of audit trails. 

Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knew or should have known that without such an examination, 

the review w~   ineffective. 

        55.     On or about February 21,2003,  Defendant Kearns told the Audit Committee     of 

MedQuist's  Board  of Directors and the Company's  external auditors, in the presence of Defendant 

Van Fossen, that the internal review of the Pennsylvania office billing complaint  showed no billing 

irregularities.  Neither Defendant Kearns nor Defendant Van Fossen told the Audit Committee or 

the external auditors about the undocumented  increases to line count ratios or the lack ofaudit trails 

of which they knew.  Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knew      or were reckless in not knowing 

that Defendant Kearns'  statements to the Audit Committee and external auditors were incomplete 

and misleading. 

        56.     In or about March 2003, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen learned that another 

employee had complained    of suspicious billing in a MedQuist office in Ohio.  A member   ofthe 

                                                 16
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

Company's  internal FOPA group reviewed the office's  billing.    Her  written report dated April 3, 

2003, stated; among other things: 

        •	     It was possible  to alter the number of billed lines and the total billed amounts by 

                altering ratios, while  keeping the price per line constant; 

        •	      The office routinely changed line count ratios after contracts were in place in order 

                to change the number   of billed lines; 

        •	      The billing system had multiple control weaknesses,  including    no record of ratio 

                changes; 

        •	      Office staffspoke openly   ofchanging  line count ratios to manipulate  profit margins; 

                and 

        •	      In at least one instance, the office had increased the line count ratio to offset a 

                decrease in contract line price. 

The changes to line count ratios at the Ohio office increased the amounts billed to customers  above 

the amount called for in MedQuist's  customer contracts.  Defendant  Keams knew the content       ofthe 

report and Defendant  Van  Fossen received a copy   in or about April 2003 from the director   of 

FOPA. 

        57.     In or about April or May 2003, an employee told Defendant      Van  Fossen that a 

MedQuist office in Alabama  had been directed to increase line ratios to increase  billed line counts, 

and thereby increase bills and profitability. 

        58.     In about October 2003, Company management  did an analysis       of the line count 

ratios ofcustomers who had previously  terminated  accounts with MedQuist.       The analysis showed 

                                                   17
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

that nearly one-third ofthe lost customers had been billed for four or more lines for each line paid 

to a transcriptionist.  That is, their line count ratios were 4-to-l or greater, resulting in bills that 

exceeded the amount called for in MedQuist's  customer contracts.  On or about October 28, 2003, 

Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen received a copy     of this analysis, which said, among other 

things: "23 of71 clients had B:P [bill to pay] ratios greater than 4:1"; "59 of71 accounts lost had 

B:P $$ greater than 3: 1"; "a large B:P should result in commensurate large GM [gross margin]"; 

"we had substantially larger margins and/or B:P than our targets."  In a series ofemail messages 

between October 28 and 29, 2003, a group    of senior managers that included Kearns and Van Fossen 

discussed the implications of the report for the Company's  client base, revenues and margins. 

       59.     In or about November 2003, MedQuist management directed the Vice President 

who had been refusing to sign internal certifications to sign her certifications with exceptions.  She 

did so by letter dated November  12,2003.   In her written exceptions, she refused to certify that she 

knew  of no instances offraud, no violations of law and regulations, no false statements, no material 

adverse effects on financials, and no violations ofcontractual agreements.  She reiterated in writing 

her complaint that she and other employees "were specifically instructed  to impose general bill 

increases to clients as a way ofincreasing MedQuist's revenue   in violation ofthe underlying 

contracts...."  Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen, and other Company officers and executives, 

received the Vice President's  reiterated complaint and her exceptions to the internal certification in 

or about November 2003. 

       60.     Following the Vice President's  reiterated complaint and written exceptions to 

certification, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen defended the Company's  billing practices to 

                                                  18
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

external auditors and during a subsequent independent internal investigation. In an internal 

memorandum  dated December  11, 2003, Defendant Van Fossen stated that the issue     of unverifiable 

billing was not new, and that "any line count which is billed at less that 2.3 to 1 payroll lines, would 

on average be at or below a fair level," notwithstanding the requirements ofindividual customer 

contracts. 

       61.     Defendants Keams and VanFossen  knew       or should have known   ofrepeated 

customer and  employee complaints   ofhigh line counts, ratio manipulations,  and other billing 

irregularities from 1999 to 2004.  Nevertheless, Defendants Keams and   Van  Fossen failed to audit 

the accuracy ofline counts anywhere at the Company and failed   to test or implement internal 

controls on billing. 

                            Material  Misrepresentations  to Auditors 

       62.     Defendants Keams and Van Fossen had a duty to the Company's  shareholders to 

ensure accuracy and integrity in the Company's  billing and financial reporting and in its dealings 

with its external auditors. 

       63.     From October 2000 to 2004, Defendant Keams knew or was reckless in       not 

knowing that no Company transcription platform actually counted AAMT characters      and  divided 

by 65 as provided in Company contracts, but did not tell the auditors.  From  1999 to 2004, 

Defendant Van Fossen knew or was reckless in not knowing that no Company transcription 

platform actually counted AAMT characters and divided    by 65 as provided in Company contracts, 

but did not tell the auditors.  This omitted disclosure was material to the auditors'  work and public 

statements about the Company. 

                                                 19 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

       64.     From October 2000 to 2004, Defendant Kearns knew or was reckless in      not 

knowing that the Company had inadequate controls on its billing process, including no audit trails 

on ratio changes, but did not tell the auditors.  From 1999 to 2004, Defendant Van Fossen knew or 

was reckless in not knowing that the Company had inadequate controls    on its billing process, 

including no audit trails on ratio changes, but did not tell the auditors. Ibis omitted disclosure was 

material to the auditors'  work and public statements about the Company. 

       65.     From October 2000 to 2004, Defendant Kearns knew or was reckless in      not 

knowing that the· Company manipulated line count ratios to reach revenue and gross margin targets, 

but did not tell the auditors.  From 1999 to 2004, Defendant Van Fossen knew   or was reckless in 

not knowing that the Company manipulated line count ratios to reach revenue and gross margin 

targets, but did not tell the auditors. Ibis omitted disclosure was material to the auditors'  work and 

public statements about the Company. 

       66.     From October 2000 to 2004, Defendant Kearns knew or was reckless in      not 

knowing  of customer and employee complaints    of billing fraud and other billing irregularities, but 

did not tell the auditors ofthese complaints.  From 1999 to 2004, Defendant Van Fossen knew or 

was reckless in not knowing  ofcustomer and employee complaints     ofbilling fraud and other billing 

irregularities, but did not tell the auditors ofthese complaints. Ibis omitted disclosure was material 

to the auditors'  work and public statements about the Company. 

       67.     Defendant Van Fossen undermined the efforts    of the Company's  external auditors 

with misrepresentations  during the 1999 annual audit.  Defendant Van Fossen discussed AAMT 

line billing with the auditors but did not tell them ofMedQuist's  company-wide and exclusive use 

                                                 20
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

 and manipulation  ofratios to meet revenue and gross profit margin targets.  Instead, Defendant Van 

 Fossen allowed the auditors to believe, incorrectly, that a MedQuist transcription platform actually 

 counted AAMT characters and lines as required   by MedQuist's  contracts.  The auditors unwittingly 

 used this platform to check AAMT line counts derived by ratio  on other platforms.  Because of 

 Defendant Van Fossen's  deception, the auditors never knew that the platform used to test AAMT 

 counts did not in fact count AAMT, but rather used ratios to calculate billed lines from 

 transcriptionist paid lines. 

        68.     Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen misled company auditors during the 2002 

 annual audit. In January 2003, they knowingly permitted a subordinate  to give the auditors a 

 fabricated document falsely purporting to show  how  a MedQuist transcription platform actually 

 counted AAMT characters and lines, even though they knew that no MedQuist platform counted 

 AAMT lines.  The fabricated document was titled "Boumewood  Sample Document."         The 

 subordinate created the document between October and December 2002 for use in defending 

 against a customer lawsuit that, among other things, alleged inflated AAMT line counts.  The 

 fabricated document displayed invisible and visible characters, as well as their counts, which 

 MedQuist supposedly used to calculate billed  AAMT    lines.  Nothing on the document revealed that 

 it was a fabrication, that MedQuist did not count characters to calculate billed AAMY lines, or that 

 MedQuist instead always used ratios to meet revenue and gross margin profit targets.  Defendants 

 Kearns and  VanFossen   knew  of the document, had seen the document, and knew that   the 

. document was fabricated.  They also knew or were reckless in not knowing that the document was 

 false and misleading because it presented a counting methodology that the Company    did not use. 

                                                 21
 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

       69.     Defendants  Kearns and   Van  Fossen  signed representation  letters to external 

auditors, falsely stating that they: 

       •       had provided  all relevant  information  to auditors; 

       •       knew   of no false statements  to auditors; 

       •       knew   of no internal control deficiencies;  and 

       •        knew  of no allegations of fraud by employees   orothers. 

Defendant  Keams  signed false representation  letters for each quarterly and annual audit from the 

third quarter of2000  through the  third qUarter of2003.  Defendant  Van Fossen  signed false 

representation  letters for each quarterly  and annual  audit from the first quarter of2001 through the 

third quarter of2003.  Defendants  Keams  and   Van  Fossen  knew  at the time they signed the letters 

that they contained  material  falsehoods. 

        70.     On or about February 21, 2003, Defendant    Keams    told the Company's  external 

auditors,  in the presence ofDefendant  Van  Fossen, that the internal  review ofthe Pennsylvania 

office billing  complaint  showed no billing irregularities.  Defendants Keams  and Van  Fossen  knew 

or were reckless in not knowing that (a) the review  failed to check the accuracy  ofline counts,  (b) 

the office had made undocumented  increases    to line count ratios  and (c) the office lacked audit 

trails.  However,  Defendant  Keams  did not disclose  these facts to external auditors.  Defendants 

Kearns and  Van  Fossen.knew   or were reckless  in not knowing that Defendant  Kearns'  statements  to 

the external  auditors were incomplete  and misleading. 

        71.     In about December  2003, the Company's  external  auditor asked Company 

management  for information  relating to the Vice President's  November    12,2003,  billing complaint. 

                                                  22
 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

Defendant Kearns was a principal source   of infonnation  to the external auditors  from about 

December 2003 through about March 2004.  Despite knowing that customer contracts specified that 

AAMT    lines be counted; that the Company did   not count AAMT     but derived line counts as a ratio 

ofpaid transcription  lines; that the company made line ratio changes without internal controls  or 

audit trails; that the company manipulated  line count ratios to increase revenues  and profit margins; 

that some customers had line count ratios higher than  4-to-l; and that both customers  and 

employees had repeatedly  complained    ofbilling irregularities, Defendant  Kearns told external 

auditors that the Company  had done nothing wrong, that  its line counts were justified and 

legitimate, and any potential  overbilling  was inadvertent  and immaterial.  Defendant Kearns  knew 

or was reckless in not knowing that his statements to external auditors were incomplete   and 

misleading. 

                  Material Misrepresentations  to Shareholders  and the Public 

       72.     Defendant  Van Fossen from 1999 to 2004, and Defendant Kearns from October 

2000 to 2004, did not disclose to shareholders  or public investors  that no Company transcription 

platfonn  actually counted AAMT    characters and divided by  65 as provided  in Company contracts. 

They did not disclose to shareholders  or public investors  that the company had inadequate  controls 

on its billing process, including no  audit trails on line ratio changes.  They did not disclose to 

shareholders or public investors that customers  and employees had made repeated  complaints     of 

billing fraud and other billing irregularities.  They did not disclose  to shareholders  or public 

investors that the Company manipulated  line count ratios to reach revenue and gross margin  targets, 

or that improving  financial perfonnance  was due, at least in part, to manipulation ofline count 

                                                  23
 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

ratios.  Each ofthese omitted disclosures was material, in that a reasonable investor would consider 

them important to his investment decisions about the Company. 

       73.     Defendant Van Fossen from 1999    to 2004, and Defendant Kearns from October 

2000 to 2004, affirmatively misled shareholders and the investing public in the Company's  public 

filings.  The Management Discussion and Analysis ("MD&A") sections      of each of the Company's 

Forms lO-K and lO-Q filed with the Commission  from 1999 to 2004 stated that the Company's 

revenues were "based primarily  on contracted rates," and that its improved financial and revenue 

performance was due to legitimate business practices such as increased sales to existing and new 

customers, acquisitions, or growth in its transcription business generally.  In truth, the Company's 

improved revenues and financial performance were also based, at least in part, on and due to the 

Company's  secret manipulation  ofbilled line counts through the use ofthe 2-to-1 BTP  ratio and the 

3-to-1 margin ratio, which violated the terms ofMedQuist's  contracts with customers.  These 

misleading statements were material because a reasonable investor would consider it important to 

his investment decisions to know whether the Company  obtained revenue    by legitimate business 

practices or by fraudulent billing. 

       74.     Defendant Kearns reviewed all financial statements and signed all ofMedQuist's 

Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed with the Commission from October 2000.to 2004.  Defendant Van 

Fossen prepared the fmancial statements and drafted the MD&A     material for all ofMedQuist's 

filings, including the Forms  lO-K and lO-Q filed with the Commission from  1999  to 2004. 

       75.     From 1999 to 2004, MedQuist also engaged in several public offerings   and  fIled 

Forms S-3 and S-8 with the Commission. These offerings incorporated the materially misleading 

                                                24
 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

Forms  10-K and 10-Q and associated fmancial  statements that Defendant    Van  Fossen prepared  and 

Defendant  Keams reviewed  and signed.  Defendant  Keams  signed and Defendant  Van Fossen 

helped prepare the Forms  S-8 filed with the Commission   on November    13,2000,  July 16,2001, 

September  11,2003,  and October 6, 2003, each   ofwhich incorporated  the Company's  materially 

misleading  periodic filings.  Defendant  Van Fossen also helped prepare the Forms  S-3 and S-3A 

filed on March 25, 1999, April 6, 1999, April 27, 1999 and September  2, 1999, as well   as Form S-8 

filed on August 23, 1999, each  ofwhich incorporated  the Company's  materially  misleading 

periodic filings. 

        76.    Defendants  Keams and Van Fossen affirmatively  misled shareholders     and the 

investing public in the Company's  quarterly .investor  conference . calls on the Company's  financial 

results for the third quarter of2000 through the second  quarter of2002, and the Company's  Forms 

8-K, which contained the content  ofthe  calls. In these calls and filings, MedQuist  claimed it was 

working to grow revenues  and expand  margins through a number     of initiatives,  and then attributed 

the growth and expansion  it achieved to a "back to basics management  discipline,"  "disciplined 

business practices,"  and the experience  and "discipline" ofthe Company's  management  team.   In 

truth, the Company's  improved revenues  and financial performance  were also based,   at least in part, 

on and due to the Company's  secret manipulation   of billed line counts through  the use ofthe 2-to-l 

BTP ratio and the 3-to-l  margin ratio, which violated  the terms ofMedQuist's  contracts with 

customers.  These misleading  statements  were material because  a reasonable  investor would 

consider it important to his investment  decisions to know whether  the Company  obtained revenue 

by legitimate business practices or by fraudulent billing. 

                                                 25 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

       77.     Defendant  Keams  prepared the scripts for and participated  in the quarterly 

conference calls with investors from the third quarter of2000 through the second quarter   of 2002. 

Defendant  Kearns also signed the Forms  8-K containing  the scripts for the investor conference  calls 

for the fourth quarter of2000 through  the second quarter of2002.   Defendant  Van  Fossen  assisted 

with the preparation ofthe Forms 8-K containing   the scripts ofthe conference  calls for the third 

quarter of2000 through the  second quarter  of2002,  and the fInancial information  disclosed  during 

the conference  calls and in the related Forms 8-K. 

       78.     Defendants  Keams  and Van Fossen  knew     or were reckless in not knowing  that their 

public statements,  including  those described in paragraphs 72 through  77 above, were materially 

misleading to investors. 

                                  FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF
 

               Violations  by Kearns   and Van Fossen    of the Antifraud Provisions
 
                         Contained   in Section 17(a) ofthe Securities Act
 

       79.     The Commission  realleges  and incorporates   by reference every allegation  contained 

in paragraphs  1 through  78 herein. 

       80.     By reason  of the foregoing,  Defendants  Kearns and Van Fossen,  directly or 

indirectly,  singly or in concert, by use ofthe means or instruments oftransportation  or 

communication   in interstate commerce  or by the use ofthe mails,  in the offer or saleofsecurities: 

(a) knowingly  or recklessly  employed  devices, schemes  and artifIces to defraud;  (b) obtained  money 

or property by means  of untrue statements of material  fact or omissions to state material facts 

necessary in orderto make  the statements  made, in the light ofthe circumstances  under which they 

were made, not misleading;  and/or (c) engaged in transactions,  practices or courses ofbusiness 

                                                 26
 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

which operated  or would operate as a fraud or deceit upon the purchasers ofMedQuist   securities 

and upon other persons, in violationsof Section 17(a) of the Securities Act[15 U.S.C.  §§ 77q(a)]. 

                                SECOND  CLAIM FOR RELIEF 

               Violations  by Kearns and Van Fossen     of the Antifraud  Provisions
 
                Contained  in Section  lO(b) ofthe  Exchange Act and Rule  lOb-5
 

       81.     The Commission  realleges and incorporates   by reference every allegation  contained 

in paragraphs  1 through  78 herein. 

       82.     By reason  ofthe foregoing, Defendants  Kearns and Van Fossen,  directly or 

indirectly, singly or in concert, by use ofthe means or instrumentalities ofinterstate commerce  or of 

the mails, knowingly or recklessly,in  connection  with the purchase  or sale of securities:  (a) 

employed devices, schemes and artifices to defraud; (b) made untrue statements   ofmaterial  fact, or 

omitted to state material  facts necessary in order to make statements  made, in light ofthe 

circumstances  under which they were made, not misleading;  and! or (c) engaged  in acts, practices 

and courses of business  which operated or would have operated as a fraud  or deceit upon 

purchasers of MedQuist securities and upon other persons,  in violationsof  Section 1O(b) of the 

Exchange Act and Rule  10b-5 [15   U.S.c. § 78j(b) and 17 C.F.R. 240.l0b-5]. 

                                 TIDRD    CLAIM FOR RELIEF 

          Aiding and Abetting Violations  by Van Fossen      of the Antifraud  Provisions
 
                Contained  in Section  lO(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule  lOb-5
 

       83.     The Commission  realleges and incorporates   by reference every allegation contained 

in paragraphs  1 through  78 herein. 

        84.    MedQuist  directly or indirectly; singly or in concert, by use ofthe means or 

instrumentalitiesof interstate commerce, or of the mailsp inconnection with the offer, purchase, or 

                                                 27
 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

sale ofsecurities,  knowingly or recklessly:  (a) employed devices, schemes and artifices to defraud; 

(b) made untrue statements of material fact, or omitted to state material facts necessary in order to 

make statements made, in light ofthe circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; 

~d/or (c) engaged in acts, practices and courses ofbusiness which operated or would have operated 

as a fraud or deceit upon purchasers of MedQuist securities and upon other persons, in violations of 

Section 1O(b) ofthe Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5 [15 U.S.C.    § 78j(b) and 17 C.F.R. 240.10b-5]. 

       85.     Defendant Van Fossen knowingly provided substantial assistance to MedQuist in 

the commission  ofthese violations. 

       86.     By reason of the foregoing, Defendant Van Fossen aided and abetted violations  of 

Section 1O(b) ofthe Exchange Act and Rule lOb-5 [15 U.S.c.  § 78j(b) and  17 C.F.R. 240.10b-5]. 

                               FOURTH  CLAIM        FOR   RELIEF 

               Violations by Kearns   and Van  Fossen  of the Prohibition  on False 
                 Records   and False Statements   Contained  in Section 13(b)(5) 
                       of the Exchange  Act  and Rules  13b2-1  and 13b2-2 

       87.      The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference every allegation 

contained in paragraphs 1 through 78 herein. 

       88.     By reason of the foregoing, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen: 

               a.      knowingly circumvented or knowingly failed to implement a system    of 

       internal accounting controls or knowingly falsified books, records, or accounts; 

               b.      directly or indirectly, falsified or caused to be falsified, books, records, or 

       accounts subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act  [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A); 

       and 

                                                28 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

               c.     directly or indirectly made or caused to be made a materially false or 

       misleading statement to an accountant, or omitted to state, or cause another person to omit 

       to state, any material fact necessary in order to make statements made, in light ofthe 

       circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading, to an accountant, 

       in connection with an audit, review or examination ofMedQuist's  fmancial statements, or 

       in connection with preparation of a document or report required to be filed with the 

       Commission; 

in violation ofSection 13(b)(5) ofthe Exchange Act and Rules 13b2-1 and 13b2-2 [IS U.S.C. § 

78m(b)(5) and  17 C.F.R. §§ 240. 13b2-1 and 240. 13b2-2]. 

                                 FIFTH   CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

         Aiding  and Abetting Violations by   Keams   and Van Fossen    of th~ Reporting 
                  Provisions Contained  in Section 13(a)   of the Exchange Act 
                          and Rules 12b-20,  13a-l,  13a-ll, and 13a-13 

       89.     The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference every allegation contained 

in paragraphs I through 78 herein. 

       90.     MedQuist failed to file with the Commission such financial reports as the 

Commission has prescribed, and failed to include, in addition to the information expressly required 

to be stated in such reports, such further material information as was necessary to make the 

statements made therein, in light ofthe circumstances in which they were made, not misleading, in 

violationsof Section 13(a) ofthe Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-l,   13a-ll, and 13a-13  [15 

U.S.c.  § 78m(a) and 17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-l,  240.13a-ll, and 240.13a-13]. 

       91.     Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knowingly provided substantial assistance to 

MedQuist in the commission   ofthese violations. 

                                                29 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

       92.     By reason  ofthe foregoing, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen aided and abetted 

violationsof Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-l,   13a-ll,  and 13a-13 [15 

u.S.C.  § 78m(a) and 17 C.F.R.  §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-l,  240.13a-ll, and 240.13a-13]. 

                                 SIXTH    CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

               Aiding  and  Abetting  Violations by  Kearns  and  Van  Fossen  of the
 
               Books  and  Records  and  Internal Control  Provisions  Contained   in
 
                   Sections  13(b)(2)(A)  and 13(b)(2)(B)  of the Exchange   Act
 

       93.     The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference every allegation contained 

in paragraphs 1 through 78 herein. 

       94.      MedQuist failed to: 

               a.      make and keep books, records, and accounts, which in !easonable  detail, 

       accurately and fairly reflected the transactions and dispositions ofits assets; 

               b.      devise and maintain a system  of internal accounting controls sufficient to 

       provide reasonable assurances that: 

                       1.     transactions were executed  in accordance with management's 

               general or specific authorizations; 

                       11.    transactions were recorded as necessary to permit preparation  of 

               financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles or 

               any other criteria applicable to such statements, and to maintain accountability for 

               assets; 

                       111.   access to assets was permitted only in accordance  with 

               management's  general  or specific authorization; and 

                                                 30 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

                      IV.     the recorded accountability for assets was compared with the 

               existing assets at reasonable intervals and appropriate actions was taken with respect 

               to any differences; 

in violation ofSections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) ofthe Exchange Act  [15 U.S.C.  §§ 

78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

       95.     Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen knowingly provided substantial assistance to 

MedQuist in the commission   ofthese violations. 

       96.     By reason of the foregoing, Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen aided   and abetted 

violations of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) ofthe Exchange Act  [15 U.S.c. §§ 

78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

                                    PRAYER FOR       RELIEF
 

       WHEREFORE,        the Commission respectfully requests that this Court:
 

               (a)    Permanently restrain and enjoin Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen, and 

their agents, servants, employees, attorneys-in-fact, and assigns and those persons in active concert 

or participation with them, and each ofthem, from further violations ofthe relevant provisions of 

the securities laws; 

               (b)    Order  Defendants  Kearns and Van Fossen to pay civil money penalties 

pursuant to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act and Section 21(d) ofthe Exchange   Act [15 U.S.C. 

§§ 77t(d)] and §78u(d)]; 

               (c)    Enter an order against Defendants Kearns and Van Fossen pursuant to 

Section 20(e) ofthe Securities Act and Section 21(d) ofthe Exchange Act  [15 U.S.C. §§ 77t(e) and 

                                                31
 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

78u(d)], prohibiting each ofthem from acting as an officer or director ofany issuer that has a class 

ofsecurities registered under Section 12 ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78l] orthat is required to 

file reports by Section 15(d) ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78o(d)]; and 

              (d)     Grant such other relief as the Court deems just and proper. 

Dated:  March  12,2009                      Respectfully submitted, 

                                                               85  5) 
                                                                    CHANGE  COMMISSION 

                                            Attorney for Plaintiff 

Of Counsel: 

Gerald W; Hodgkins 
Moira T. Roberts 
Sharan K.S. Custer 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION 
100 F Street, NE 
Washington, DC 20549 

                                               32
 
