---------------------Page 1---------------------

                        UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT  
                        FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA  

SECURITIES    AND  EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION 
100 F Street, N.E. 
Washington, D.C. 20549-4030 
(202) 551-4492, 

                          Plaintiff, 
                                                     Case: 1 :07-cv-01273  
             v.                                      Assigned To  : Collyer, Rosemary M. 
                                                     Assign. Date : 711 812007 
MADHAVAN SIVATHANU         PILLAI                    Description: General Civil 
184 St Bed, fourth block 
4th Main 
Kormangala, Bangalore 
India, 

                          Defendant. 

                                    COMPLAINT 

      Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") alleges: 

                                    SUMMARY 

      1.     In the third and fourth quarters of 2003, Defendant Madhavan Pillai ("Pillai'7), in 

his capacity as the founder and head of Infotech Network Group ("Infotech"), a company based 

in India, entered into a series of transactions with Quovadx, Inc. ("Quovadx"), a Colorado-based 

software company, involving approximately $1 1.1 million of sohvare licenses. Each of these 

transactions had material contingencies and the collection of payment was not probable, which 

precluded Quovadx from recognizing revenue fiom them. As a result, Quovadx fraudulently 

recognized approximately $11.1million in software licensing revenue fiom the transactions with 

Infotech. Pillai was aware of the material contingencies involved with these transactions and 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

that Infotech was not likely to pay for the software licenses involved. Further, Pillai had Infbtech 

enter into some of these transactions to accommodate Quovadx in meeting its revenue goals.  By 

his conduct, Pillai aided and abetted Quovadx's violations of the antifraud and reporting 

provisions of the federal securities laws. 

       2.     The Commission seeks an order permanently enjoining Pillai from further 

securities laws violations and imposing a civil monetary penalty. 

                                      JURISDICTON 
, 
       3.     This Court has jurisdiction pursuant to Sections 21 and 27 of the Securities 

Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") [15 U.S.C. @78u and 78aal. 

       4.     Pillai, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of 

interstate commerce, or of the mails, in connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and 

courses of business described in this Complaint, certain of which have occurred within this 

judicial district. 

                                    THE DEFENDANT 

       5.     Madhavan  S. Pillai, age 39, is Chairman and Management Director (CEO) of 

Infotech India and a director of Infotech USA (which together comprise Infotech). Infotech, a 

private company, was established in 2003 to market and facilitate Indian information technology 

outsourcing services for U.S. software companies. During the time relevant to this complaint, 

Infotech employed approximately thirty employees, primarily in India. 

                                   RELATED ENTITY 

       6.     Quovadx, a Delaware corporation based in Englewood, Colorado, is a software 

company that licenses software and sells related services to the health care industry. Quovadx's 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

stock was registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded 

on the NASDAQ National Market. During 2002 and 2003, Quovadx derived about one-third of 

its reported revenue fiom software licensing fees with the rest coming fiom software 

maintenance and service contracts. Quovadx separately reported its software licensing revenue, 

which included sales of both software and licenses. 

                       RELEVANT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 

       7.     Public companies such as Quovadx are required to file quarterly and annual 

reports with the Commission that presented their financial results in conformity with Generally 

Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAP).   The American Institute of Certified Public 

Accountants' Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition ("SOP 97-2")' and 

related interpretations are the principal GAAP provisions governing the recognition of revenue 

for sales of software and software licenses. 

       8.     Under SOP 97-2, a company may not recognize revenue fiom a software license 

sale unless and until there is: persuasive evidence of an arrangement; delivery of the software; a 

fixed or determinable seller's fee; and a reasonable probability of collecting the accounts . 

receivable. Further, if payment is substantially contingent on the buyer's success in distributing 

the product to the customer, either due to the terms of the deal or because the buyer is so 

undercapitalized that it cannot pay until it sells the product, the seller may not recognize the 

software license revenue at the time of sale. In its financial reports filed with the Commission, 

Quovadx claimed that it had recognized revenue in accordance with GAAP. 

                               FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 

       9.     In early September 2003, Infotech, with Pillai acting as its principal and 

negotiator, executed two related agreements with Quovadx. Under the first ("the distributor 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

agreement"), Infotech agreed to buy $5 million of software licenses fkom Quovadx and to .bethe 

exclusive distributor of Quovadx products in India. Under the second agreement ("the 

outsourcing agreement"), Quovadx agreed to pay Infotech to perform certain services and 

conduct various research and development projects, pursuant to Statements of Work that would 

be subsequently negotiated. The agreements required both parties to fund letters-of-credit to 

guarantee the payment of their respective obligations. The distributor agreement required that 

Infotech fund a $5.46 million letter-of-credit before Quovadx shipped any software to it. 

       10.    As required by the outsourcing agreement, Quovadx immediately funded a letter- 

of-credit for $2.46 million to pay Infotech as it rendered outsourcing services. By mid- 

September, Infotech had not funded its letter-of-credit. Quovadx nevertheless shipped the $5 

million of software licenses to Infotech. In an attempt to meet Quovadx's quarterly revenue 

goals, Quovadx solicited Pillai to have Infotech buy more software licenses before the end of the 

third quarter. Pillai agreed to do so on the condition that Quovadx guarantee pre-payment of 

outsourcing funds. On September 30,2003, the parties signed supplemental contracts under 

which Infotech was to buy $2.1 million of additional software licenses and Quovadx was to pre- 

pay Infotech over $1 million for unspecified outsourcing work. Quovadx shipped the additional 

$2.1 million in software to Infotech on the last day of the quarter. Quovadx, with the 

concurrence of its outside auditor, offset the revenue from these two purported sales by its 

estimated outsourcing obligation to Infotech and recognized approximately $4.6 million in 

revenue for the quarter. Quovadx planned to recognize the remaining revenue as Infotech 

performed outsourcing services. 

       11.    In early October 2003, before Quovadx filed its quarterly report for the third 

quarter, Pillai told Quovadx that Infotech did not have enough money to fund its required letters- 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

of-credit. Quovadx agreed to wire $410,000 to assist Infotech in making a margin payment to an 

Indian bank, purportedly to establish and fund the required letters-of- credit. In return, Pillai 

gave Quovadx  a l&er fiom the Indian bank expressing confidence that Infotech's letter of credit 

would be opened (not funded) by October 21,2003.  Infotech sent Quovadx another non- 

committal letter on October 21,2003.  Quovadx relied on these letters as support for Infotech's 

supposed ability to pay and recognized revenue on the third quarter Infotech transactions. 

       12.    On  October 22,2003, Quovadx issued both a press release announcing the 

distribution and software development agreement with Infotech and a preliminary earnings 

release touting a 183% increase in software licensing revenue over the third quarter of 2002. 

The Infotech transaction accounted for approximately 60% of Quovadx7s reported third quarter 

software licensing revenue. Quovadx's share price increased over 25% on the news of the third 

quarter results. 

       13.    By mid-December 2003, Infotech still had not funded the required letters-of- 

credit and had not paid for either of its third quarter purchases. Pillai told Quovadx that the 

software had still not been released fi-om customs in India, which he claimed was necessary 

before Infotech could fund its letter-of-credit. Despite these significant issues, Quovadx, hoping 

to meet Wall Street expectations, asked Pillai to have Infotech make another software purchase. 

Pillai agreed to accommodate Quovadx's revenue recognition objectives by having Infotech 

purchase more software but only on the condition that Quovadx immediately wire $500,000 to 

Infotech as an outsourcing prepayment. Quovadx made this payment. Quovadx also sent Pillai a 

default letter for Infotech's failure to pay for its third quarter purchases. Thus, by mid-December 

Quovadx had sent $910,000 to Infotech, yet Infotech had not paid for any of the software 

licenses that it had bought fiom Quovadx. 

                -
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       14.    On  December 31,2003, Infotech signed a contract to buy $6.5 million of softtvare 

licenses fiom Quovadx. Quovadx simultaneously signed a supplemental agreement to pay 

Infotech up to $1.94 million for any outsourcing work that Infotech actually performed through 

August 2004. Pillai negotiated and signed both contracts on behalf of Infotech. Quovadx also 

provided Pillai assurances that it would increase Quovadx's outsourcing to Infotech significantly 

over the coming year. 

       15.    On February 11,2004, Quovadx issued its preliminary fourth quarter earnings 

release (attached to a Form 8-K filed the same day), which included the $6.5 million in Infotech 

revenue. Quovadx issued this release even though Infotech had not paid for the third quarter 

purchases and Infotech's ability to pay for the fourth quarter purchases depended on its ability to 

resell the software licenses. The earnings release claimed that Quovadx's total annual revenue 

for 2003 had increased about 30% and that its year-over-year software licensing revenue had 

grown about 173%. The Infotech transactions accounted for virtually the entire increase in 

Quovadx's software licensing revenue. After this announcement, Quovadx's stock price 

increased by about 10%' closing at $6.66 per share on February 12. 

       16.    At the time of Quovadx's year-end audit in mid-February 2004, Infotech still had 

not funded a letter-of-credit or made any payments for either the third or fourth quarter software 

purchases. In early March 2004, Quovadx's auditor advised it that the company would have to 

reverse the Infotech revenue fiom both the third and fourth quarters unless Infotech made a 

substantial payment before Quovadx's annual report was due to be filed. On March 8,2004, 

therefore, Quovadx, following negotiations with Pillai, authorized Infotech to draw down the 

$1.94 million balance on Quovadx's outsourcing letter-of-credit with the understanding that 

Pillai would have Quovadx use these funds to arrange bank financing to pay Quovadx for the 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

software purchases. After receiving the $1.94 million, Pillai told Quovadx that he believed * 

Infotech was entitled to this money under the outsourcing agreement and would not use it to pay 

Quovadx for the software. When Quovadx asked Pillai to have Infotech return the money, he 

refused. Infotech never returned the money or paid for the software. 

       17.    On March 15,2004, Quovadx announced that it would reverse all revenue on 

sales to Infotech in the third and fourth quarters of 2003. On March 18, Quovadx filed its annual 

report for 2003 which restated its financial results for the third and fourth quarters of 2003 and 

removed $1 1.1 million in revenue from transactions with Infotech. 

                              FIRST   CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
 Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  § 78j(b)],  
                    and Rule lob-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R.   5 240.10b-51  

       18.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 17 above. 

       19.    Section lo@) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder prohibit materially 

false or misleading statements or omissions made in connection with the purchase or sale of 

securities. A person or entity violates these provisions by knowingly or recklessly making material 

misstatements or omitting to state material information in Commission filings or in other statements 

disseminated to investors. 

       20.    Quovadx fi-audulently recognized approximately $1 1.1 million of revenue on the 

Infotech transactions. As a result, Quovadx violated Section lo@) and Rule lob-5 thereunder. 

Pillai was aware of the material contingencies involved in those transactions and that Infotech was 

not hkely to pay for the software licenses involved. Further, Pillai had Infotech enter into some of 

these transactions to accommodate Quovadx's revenue recognition objectives. Pillai therefore 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

knowingly provided substantial assistance to Quovadx in its fraud in the third and fourth quai-tgrs of 

2003. 

       21.    By reason of the foregoing, Pillai aided and abetted Quovadx's violation of Section 

lo@) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder. 

                              SECOND    CLAIM    FOR RELIEF  
             Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act  
                  [15 U.S.C. §78m(a)] and Rules 12b-20,13a-11 and 13a-13  
                    [17 C.F.R  §§240.12b-20,240.13a-11 and 240.13a-131  

       22.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 17 above. 

       23.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder 

require that issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as 

Quovadx, file periodic reports with the Commission that are complete and accurate in all material 

respects. Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 requires that, in addition to the information expressly required 

to be included in a statement or report, an issuer must add such fiu-ther material information, if any, 

as may be necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which 

they are made, not misleading. 

       24.    Quovadx materially overstated its software licensing revenue in the third quarter 

and fourth quarters of 2003 by fraudulently recognizing revenue from the purported sales of 

software licenses to Infotech. As a result, Quovadx's quarterly report for the third quarter of 

2003 and the earnings release attached to its Form 8-K for both the third and fourth quarters, 

contained materially inaccurate and misleading statements. As a result, Quovadx violated 

Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a- 1 1 and 13a-13. 

       25.    By entering into the series of software licensing transactions with Quovadx in the 

third and fourth quarters of 2003 while aware of the material contingencies involved in those 
                -
---------------------Page 9---------------------

transactions and knowing collection was not reasonably probable, Pillai laowingly providcd 

substantial assistance to Quovadx in its reporting violations.  By reason of the foregoing, Pillai 

aided and abetted Quovadx's violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 

13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                  PRAYER    FOR RELIEF 

       The Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final judgment against 

Defendant Pillai: 

       A.     finding that Defendant Pillai committed the violations alleged above; 

       B.     permanently enjoining Defendant Pillai fiom violating or aiding and abetting 

violations of Sections 10(b) and 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $5 78j(b)] and Rules lob-5, 

12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 [17 C.F.R. $8 240.10b-5,240.12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11 and 13a-131; 

       C.     ordering Defendant Pillai to disgorgement all ill-gotten gains and prejudgment 

interest thereon; 

       D.     ordering Defendant Pillai to pay an appropriate civil penalty pursuant to Section 

21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $8 78(u)(d)(3)]; 

       E.     retaining jurisdiction over this action to implement and carry out the terms of all 

orders and decrees that may be entered; and 

       F.     granting such other and additional relief as this Court deems just and proper. 

                                          Thomas   W. Peirce 

                                          Attorneys for Plaintiff 
                                          Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                          100 F. Street N.E. 
                                          Washington, DC  20549 
                                          (202) 55 1-4492 (Simpson) 
