---------------------Page 1---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 1 of 35

                          UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
                     FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS 
                                  HOUSTON DIVISION 
_____________________________________________ 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION,                               : 
                                                     : 
                               Plaintiff,            :   Civil Action No.:  4:12-cv-1051 
                                                     :    
          v.                                         :    COMPLAINT 
                                                     :    
ANTHONY J. NOCELLA, AND                             : 
J. RUSSELL MCCANN,                                  : 
                                                     : 
                                                     : 
                               Defendants.           : 
                                                     : 
                                              
       Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (the “Commission”) alleges as follows: 

                                        SUMMARY 

        1.    This is a financial fraud matter involving securities law violations by former 

senior executives of Franklin Bank Corp., a Texas-based savings and loan holding company.  In 

2007, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Franklin Bank, S.S.B., (together with Franklin Bank 

Corp., “Franklin” or “the Bank”), Franklin operated a multi-branch savings bank.  At the 

beginning of the financial crisis, during the third and fourth quarters of 2007, Franklin’s CEO, 

Anthony J. Nocella (“Nocella”), and its CFO, J. Russell McCann (“McCann”), engaged in a 

disclosure and accounting fraud that misled investors about Franklin’s financial condition and 

concealed the extent of its exposure to loan delinquencies.   

       2.     In the second and third quarters of 2007, the financial markets began showing 

signs of severe distress caused by, among other things, increasing mortgage loan delinquencies 

and falling home prices.  Franklin was not immune.  From June 2007 to August 2007, the 

Defendants regularly reviewed reports revealing a 24% (or $30 million) increase in 

delinquencies in the Bank’s loan portfolio over the 3 month period.   

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                      Page 1 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 2 of 35

       3.     At the time they were reviewing this information, Nocella and McCann knew that 

the market, research analysts, and investors were closely monitoring the quality of Franklin’s 

loan portfolio.  In fact, on August 9, 2007, in response to Franklin’s request for information 

about “strategic alternatives” for the Bank, including a possible sale of the Bank, investment 

bankers from RBC Capital Markets told Nocella and McCann tha     t Franklin needed to “polish the 

apple” by demonstrating positive earnings “momentum” and “stable asset quality.”  In light of 

the precipitous increase in loan delinquencies in the third quarter of 2007, something had to be 

done to ensure that Franklin’s strategic alternatives remained viable.  

       4.     In an effort to conceal Franklin’s rising loan delinquencies and improve its 

earnings for the third quarter of 2007, Nocella and McCann  conjured and implemented a loan 

modification scheme to create the appearance that the Bank’s single-family and residential 

construction loan portfolios were outperforming other banks and that the Bank’s earnings were 

in line with analysts’ expectations.  At their core, Nocella and McCann’s loan modification 

schemes – with names like “Fresh Start” and “Great News” – were simple.  All Nocella and 

McCann had to do was wave a magic wand (in this case, a pencil) to unilaterally convert non-

performing loans into performing  loans .  In so doing, however, Nocella and McCann  violate d, 

and caused Franklin to violate, the relevant accounting rules , the Bank ’s publicly stated policies 

on non-performing assets, and the federal securities laws.   

       5.     By engaging in their disclosure and accounting tricks, Nocella and McCann 

concealed from shareholders over $11 million in delinquent and non-performing, single -family 

residential loans and $13.5 million in non-performing residential construction loans.  Indeed, 

Nocella and McCann, despite receiving reports showing   a sharp rise in delinquent loans, caused 

Franklin to report in public filings with the Commission that its non-performing assets were flat 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                          Page 2 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 3 of 35

when compared to the previous quarter, giving investors the false impression that Franklin was 

outperforming other banks.  Without Defendants’ loan modification scheme, Franklin would 

have reported a 44% increase in its non-performing assets and would have missed its earnings 

estimates for the quarter by an additional 72%.     

        6.    The Commission, in the interest of protecting the public from such fraudulent 

activities, brings this civil securities law enforcement action seeking a permanent injunction 

against Nocella and McCann  , enjoining them from further violations or aiding and abetting 

further violations of the federal securities laws.  The Commission also seeks an order barring 

Defendants from serving as officers or directors of a public company, and imposing 

disgorgement of ill-gotten gains, plus prejudgment interest, and civil monetary penalties as 

allowed by law.  The Commission further seeks an order requiring Nocella and McCann to repay 

Franklin for the bonuses they received during the time period of the misconduct and Franklin’s 

materially misstated financial results, as required by Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 

2002 [15 U.S.C. § 7243].  

                               JURISDICTION AND VENUE 

       7.     This Court has jurisdiction over this action under Section 3(b) of the Sarbanes-

Oxley Act of 2002 [15 U.S.C. § 7202(b)] and  Sections 21(d) , 21(e), and 27 of the Securities 

Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange Act”) [15 U.S.C. §§78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa]. 

       8.     Defendants have, directly and indirectly, made use of the means or 

instrumentalities of interstate commerce and/or the mails in connection with the transactions 

described in this Complaint. 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 3 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 4 of 35

       9.     Venue is proper in this Court under Sections 21(d) and 27 of the Exchange Act 

[15 U.S.C. §§78u(d) and 78aa] because certain of the acts and transactions described herein took 

place in Houston, Texas, where Franklin is headquartered. 

                                      DEFENDANTS 

       10.    Anthony J. Nocella, age 70, resides in Houston, Texas.  From 2002 to 2008, 

Nocella was the President and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)  of Franklin  Bank Corp. and 

Franklin Bank, S.S.B.  From 1967 to 1990, he was a Certified Public Accountant licensed in 

Pennsylvania.   

       11.    J. Russell McCann, age 55, resides in Katy, Texas.  From April 2002 to October 

2008, McCann was the Chief Financial Officer  (“CFO”) and Treasurer of Franklin Bank Corp., 

and the CFO and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Franklin Bank, S.S.B.  He is a Certified 

Public Accountant, and has been licensed in Texas since 1986. 

                                  RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       12.    During all relevant periods, Franklin Bank Corp. was a Texas-based savings and 

loan holding company incorporated under the laws of Delaware and headquartered in Houston, 

Texas.  Through its subsidiary, Franklin Bank, S.S.B., it operated a multi-branch savings bank.  

Its common stock is registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange 

Act, and is currently traded on the OTC Link (formerly “Pink Sheets”) operated by OTC Markets 

Group Inc.  During the relevant period, its common stock was traded on the NASDAQ National 

Market under the symbol “FBTX,” and its preferred stock was traded on the AMEX under the 

symbol “FBK-P.LF.”  On November 18, 2008, Franklin Bank Corp. filed a voluntary petition for 

bankruptcy under Chapter 7 of the United States Bankruptcy Code  [11 U.S.C. §§ 701- 784], in 

the matter In re Franklin Bank Corp., Case No. 08-12924-CSS (Dist. Del.).  The bankruptcy 

court appointed a Trustee to liquidate the assets  of and  act on behalf of Franklin Bank Corp.  

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                       Page 4 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 5 of 35

       13.    During all relevant periods, Franklin Bank, S.S.B., was a Texas state savings bank 

headquartered in Houston, Texas.   On November 7, 2008, the Texas Department of Savings and 

Mortgage Lending closed Franklin Bank, S.S.B., and appointed the Federal Deposit Insurance 

Corporation (“FDIC”) as Receiver  for the insolvent Bank. 

                                FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 

A.     Franklin’s Background 

       14.    In August 2001, Nocella and McCann, among others, formed Franklin Bank 

Corp.  On April 9, 2002, Franklin Bank Corp. acquired Franklin Bank, S.S.B., and through it, 

began operating a multi -branch savings and loan bank.  The Bank provided community banking 

products and services, and commercial banking services to corporations and other business 

clients, and it originated single family residential mortgages.  It also provided financing for 

single family home builders and commercial real estate.   

       15.    At all times relevant to the misconduct detailed in this Complaint, Nocella and 

McCann were highly paid senior executives at Franklin.  Moreover, each Defendant owned a 

significant stake of Franklin Bank Corp. that motivated him to ensure that Franklin was a 

successful business venture.  Specifically, at the end of the third quarter of 2007, Nocella and 

McCann owned approximately 200,000 shares and approximately 40,000 shares of Franklin 

Bank Corp. stock, respectively.  In addition, Nocella and McCann both received incentive based 

bonuses from Franklin. 

       16.    As CEO and CFO, respectively, Defendants Nocella and McCann were in a 

position of ultimate responsibility for Franklin’s financial condition and Franklin’s proper and 

accurate reporting of that financial condition to the public.  

 

 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 5 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 6 of 35

B.     Franklin’s Disclosure and Accounting Policies 

       17.     In the second and third quarters of 2007, the financial markets began showing 

signs of severe distress caused by, among other things, increasing mortgage delinquencies  and 

falling home prices.  Indeed, many commercial banks disclosed huge losses caused by rising 

delinquencies in their single-family mortgage loans and related portfolios.   

       18.     As described in its public filings with the Commission, Franklin’s stated policy 

regarding disclosure of non-performing loans was to place such loans “on nonaccrual status [i.e., 

no longer accrue interest from the loans into income] upon becoming four payments past due as 

to interest or principal.”  The Bank’s policy was not to return loans to accrual until “the loan 

becomes current and the borrower demonstrates the ability to repay the loan.”  Franklin disclosed 

these policies in periodic filings, including its Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2007 

(hereinafter, the “third quarter 10-Q”) and its Form 10-K for 2006, as incorporated by reference 

in its third quarter 10-Q. 

       19.     Likewise, Franklin, consistent with generally accepted accounting principles 

(“GAAP”), disclosed in its public filings with the Commission that it considered a loan 

“impaired” when it was probable that the creditor would be unable to collect all principal and 

interest amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement.   While the 

impairment policy excluded “smaller balance homogeneous loans, like single-family residential 

and consumer loans,” the policy did not exclude larger commercial loans, like residential 

construction loans.  Moreover, GAAP required    the Bank to impair single -family residential loans 

if it modified those loans and, in so doing, granted a concession to the borrower (i.e., granted the 

borrower a troubled debt restr ucturing (“TDR”)).  A creditor is deemed to have granted a 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                          Page 6 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 7 of 35

concession if, among other things, the debtor’s effective borrowing rate on the restructured debt 

is less than the effective borrowing rate of the debt immediately prior to the restructuring. 

       20.    Nocella and McCann disclosed Franklin’s impairment policy and certified that its 

financial statements conformed to GAAP as part of the B ank’s Form 10-K for 2006, which was 

incorporated by reference in Franklin’s third quarter 10-Q.   

       21.    The practical effect of Franklin’s disclosure policies on non-performing/non-

accrual assets was that Franklin, like other banks, had to disclose that its severely delinquent 

loans as non-performing loans/assets in Franklin’s public filing with the SEC.  Likewise, under 

Franklin’s impairment policies and GAAP, the Bank had to conduct an impairmen    t analysis on 

delinquent loans if it appeared that the borrower would be unable to make its payments 

according to a loan’s terms or if Franklin restructured the loans because of the borrower’s 

financial distress.   

C.     Nocella and McCann Are Advised to “Polish the Apple”        

       22.    Franklin, like most other banks, was not immune to the economic crisis.  By 

September 2007, Franklin’s loan portfolio totaled $4.2 billion, containing $1.8 billion in single-

family mortgage loans and $1.3 billion in loans to single-family home builders.  More than 70% 

of its loans were related to the housing market and collateralized by residential real estate.   

       23.    The Bank’s total loan delinquencies increased by  more than $30 million, or 24% , 

from June to August 2007.  During the third quarter, Nocella and McCann requested and 

received monthly delinquency reports and updates  that showed delinquency increases, including 

reports on August 8, August 24, and September 11, 2007.  By July 31, 2007, Franklin’ s internal 

reports showed that the Bank’s non-performing loans for single-family residential and 

residential-construction loans combined were at $22.1 million.  By the end of August 2007, 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                          Page 7 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 8 of 35

Franklin’s internal reports showed that Franklin’s non-performing loans for single-family 

residential and residential-construction loans combined had increased to $24.3 million.    

       24.    During the third quarter of 2007, Nocella and McCann knew that the market, 

research analysts, and investors were closely monitoring the quality of Franklin’s loan portfolio.  

And Nocella and McCann knew that Franklin was at risk of missing its earnings projections due 

to its deteriorating single-family and residential construction loan portfolios.  In fact, on August 

6, 2007, Nocella and Lewis Ranieri (“Ranieri”), Franklin Bank Corp.’s Chairman of the Board, 

met with investment bankers from RBC Capital Markets (“RBC”) to discuss strategic 

alternatives to raise capital, including a possible sale of the Bank.    

       25.    Three days later, RBC, during a presentation to Franklin’s Board of D irectors 

regarding strategic alternatives, told Defendants that for Franklin’s strategic options to remain 

viable, the Bank needed to meet Wall Street earnings per share (“EPS”) estimates for the third 

and fourth quarters of 2007.  RBC also recommended to Defendants that Franklin “polish the 

apple” by demonstrating “positive EPS momentum and stabilized asset quality.”   

D.     Franklin’s Scheme to Conceal Its Deteriorating Asset Quality  

       26.    On August 8, the day before the Board of D  irectors’ meeting with RBC, McCann 

emailed Nocella a spreadsheet of potential problem loans, noting an increase from $14.4 million 

potential problem loans in March to $28.7 million in June.  On August 24, Nocella and McCann 

received an email stating that delinquent loans had increased an additional $18.3 million since 

the end of July, and that delinquent loan data was available daily on the delinquent loans report.   

       27.    By the end of August, Nocella and McCann understood that Franklin could not 

demonstrate “stable asset quality” because its loan portfolio was rapidly deteriorating.  

Defendants also knew that the Bank was required to impair certain of its larger, commercial 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                          Page 8 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

     Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 9 of 35

loans – including a $13.5 million loan residential construction loan (                    see section D. 2, below), 

which would require Franklin to increase its loan loss reserves.  Finally, Nocella and McCann 

were aware that increasing the Bank’s non-performing loans and impairing bank assets would 

decrease Franklin’s reported earnings because: (i) Franklin could not, in accordance with GAAP, 

recognize interest on non-performing loans; and (ii) the increased impairment would require 

Franklin to increase its loan loss reserves and offset the increased reserves against Franklin’s 

earnings.  Franklin treated an increase in reserves as an expense, which reduced the Bank’s net 

income. 

       28.    Realizing the negative implication of increasing non-performing assets and 

increasing its loan loss reserves on its disclosures and earnings (not to mention its plans for 

“strategic alternatives”), Nocella and McCann embarked on a scheme to deceive investors about 

Franklin’s non-performing loans, non-performing assets, and earnings.   

       29.    Within days of RBC’s meeting with Franklin’s Board of D   irectors, Nocella 

proposed to implement a loan-modification program aimed at reducing single family residential 

loans over four payments past due.  Pursuant to this program, Franklin would “modify” non-

performing loans in the Bank’s portfolio to reflect those loans as performing.     

       30.    On August 30, 2007, McCann emailed Nocella, questioning what loans could be 

brought current as a result of the proposed modifications and whether the proposed loan 

modification program would improve Franklin’s financial statements.  Specifically, McCann told 

Nocella that modifying delinquent loans without an agreement or a payment would 

“automatically” create a “non-performing loan” for the period of the extension.   The email also: 

(i) advised Nocella that the modified loans would “remain delinquent, but accruing, until such 

time that payments are made under the modified terms”; and (ii) cautioned Nocella that he was 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 9 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 10 of 35

“still looking at the regs to see when the loan could be considered current under regulatory 

guidelines.”  In response, Nocella told McCann that Franklin “need[ed] to get done before 9-30 

as you know.  Keep working this.  This is incredibly important.  Need a better answer.”  Thus, 

before implementing their loan modification scheme  , Nocella and McCann understood that doing 

so had disclosure and accounting implications for Franklin.   

       31.    Even though the disclosure and accounting issues raised during Nocella and 

McCann’s August 30, 2007 discussion were never resolved   , Nocella and McCann approved and 

implemented three loan modification programs during the third  and fourth quarters of 2007: (i) 

Fresh Start; (ii) Strathmore; and (iii) Great News.   

              1.      Fresh Start  

       32.    Pursuant to the loan modification program known as “Fresh Start,” Franklin 

unilaterally sent letters to delinquent and severely delinquent borrowers –  all of whom were four 

or more payments past due and had failed to demonstrate the ability to pay under the terms of 

their loans.  The letters advised the  severely delinquent borrowers t hat the Bank would consider 

their loans current if the borrowers: (i) contacted the Bank by October 1, 2007; (ii) agreed to 

make one payment; (iii) agreed to move all past due amounts to the end of the loan due at the 

maturity of the loan; and (iv) made a payment on or before October 13, 2007 under the terms of 

the original loan.   

       33.    Through the end of the third quarter of 2007, Daniel Cooper, an Executive Vice 

President and Managing Director of the Bank’s mortgage banking division, regularly updated 

Nocella and Ranieri about the dollar amount of loans that had been modified under the Fresh 

Start program.  On September 22, 2007, Cooper notified Nocella via email that Franklin had 

modified approximately $7 million in loans and would modify more than $10 million in loans, 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 10 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 11 of 35

consistent with the goal Nocella had previously set for the end of the third quarter.  But Nocella, 

citing increasing non-performing loans and non-performing assets, responded to Cooper by 

increasing the goal to a minimum of $15 million and telling him that $16.7 million “would be 

better.”  Notably, Cooper’s email to Nocella includes multiple references to “NPL”—shorthand 

for non-performing loans.   

       34.    On September 28 (the last business day of the third quarter), Cooper emailed 

Ranieri and Nocella that: (i) approximately $10 million in loans had been modified; (ii) 

approximately $2 million in payments were posted, but would not appear on the Bank’s reports 

until the following day; (iii) a collection crew was working Saturday; and (iv) $14 million was 

“within reach but we need to get lucky with some bigger loans.” 

       35.    Ultimately, Fran klin modified millions of dollars of loans through the Fresh Start 

program, including $4 million in loans that were previously classified by the Bank as non-

performing.  In Franklin’s third quarter 10-Q, Nocella and McCann removed the non-  performing 

loans that were modified pursuant to the Fresh Start program from the Bank’s disclosures of non-

performing loans and non-performing assets.  Such removal   was inconsistent with the Bank’s 

internal Asset Classification Policies and Procedures (“Asset Policies”) and publicly disclosed 

policy on non-performing assets, which required the borrowers to make three payments and 

otherwise “demonstrate ability to repay the loan” before the loan could be reclassified as 

performing.   

       36.    Moreover, because the Fresh Start loans were TDRs under GAAP, Franklin was 

required to impair them pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 114 

(“SFAS” 114).  SFAS 114 requires creditors to measure impairment based on the present value 

of expected future cash flows or an observable fair value of the collateral (i.e., an appraisal) if the 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 11 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 12 of 35

loan is collateral dependent.  If that present value is less than the recorded investment in the loan, 

the impairment should be added to reserves and expensed against income.    

       37.    The modified Fresh Start loans included a concession to the borrower:  Franklin 

lowered the debtors’ effective borrowing rates by deferring overdue interest payments, without 

interest, until a one-time balloon payment at maturity of the loan.  Accordingly, the Fresh Start 

loans should have been treated as TDRs, and Franklin was required to impair them   pursuant to 

SFAS 114.   

       38.    Although Nocella and McCann understood (at least as of August 30, 2007, and 

likely much earlier) that Fresh Start had accounting implications for the Bank, they did not cause 

Franklin to conduct an impairment analysis of any of the loans modified under the Fresh Start 

program during the third quarter of 2007, and did not impair any of the Fresh Start loans as 

required by GAAP. 

       39.    Further, although Franklin admits that the Fresh Start loan modifications qualified 

as TDRs, even if they did not, SFAS 5 required Franklin to impair the loans because of the 

borrowers’ failures to make timely payments.      

       40.    As a result of their concealment of the Fresh Start loan modifications, Nocella and 

McCann caused Franklin to understate its non- performing assets by $4 million in its third quarter 

10-Q, representing a 24% understatement of non-performing loans and a 7% understatement of 

non-performing assets. 

       41.    As a result of Franklin’s failure to appropriately impair the Fresh Start loans and 

the Bank’s continued recognition of interest income on these non-performing loans, Nocella and 

McCann caused Franklin to overstate materially its earnings in the third quarter 10-Q by 

approximately $1.3 million (17% of reported third  quarter earnings).   

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 12 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 13 of 35

       42.    Franklin’s accounting for the Fresh Start modifications did not comply with 

GAAP.  On August 6, 2008, Franklin filed a Form 8-K admitting that Franklin “did not account 

for certain single family mortgage loan modification programs developed and implemented in 

the 3rd
       and 4th
              quarters of 2007 [including Fresh Start] as TDRs, and did not place these loans on 

non-accrual status.”   

       43.    In the face of the clear trend of increasing delinquencies, Nocella and McCann 

each signed and certified the third quarter10-Q, stating that the decrease in non-performing assets 

was the result of a decrease in Franklin’s non-performing single-family loans.  And they did so 

knowing that such “reduction” was due to their deviation from Franklin’s stated disclosure 

policies relating to non-performing loans. 

       44.    At the time that they signed and certified the third quarter 10-Q, Nocella and 

McCann knew that: (i) many of the Fresh Start loans were over four payments past due; (ii) the 

loans had not become current; and (iii) the borrowers had not demonstrated the ability to repay 

the loan.  In fact, Nocella instructed Cooper to focus on modifying non-performing loans in his 

September 22, 2007 email that increased the monetary target for the Fresh Start program.  

Likewise, McCann reviewed a spreadsheet after the end of the third  quarter that listed many of 

the Fresh Start loans and indicated that those loans were removed from the Bank’s delinquency 

report.    

       45.    Despite their knowledge of the Bank’s publicly stated nonaccrual policy, their 

participation in the Fresh Start modification, and their awareness of the Fresh Start borrower’s 

financial distress, Nocella and McCann failed to include the Fresh Start loans in the Bank’s 

disclosure of non-performing assets and non-performing loans. 

 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 13 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 14 of 35

              2.      Strathmore Modifications 

       46.    Because he understood that Fresh Start was not enough to “polish the apple,” 

Nocella tasked Franklin’s General Counsel with reducing the growing delinquencies in 

Franklin’s residential builder construction loan portfolio.  Nocella was particularly concerned 

about four troubled loans totaling $13.5 million to Strathmore Finance Co. and its subsidiaries 

for four construction projects in the Detroit area (the “Strathmore loans”).  By the summer of 

2007, Strathmore could not repay the loans and asked Franklin for a loan modif ication.  In fact, 

Strathmore’s financial condition was so dire that it requested an interest reserve as part of the 

modification. 

       47.    An “interest reserve” allows a lender to advance loan funds to pay interest charges 

on the outstanding balance of the loan.  The interest is capitalized and added to the loan balance. 

       48.    Franklin’s Chief Credit Officer (“CCO”)   reviewed Strathmore’s modification 

request and determined  that Strathmore was “insolvent.”  Accordingly, Epperson instructed the 

Bank’s loan officer to obtain additional collateral from Strathmore as a precondition to any 

modification of the Strathmore loans , and told the Executive Management Credit Committee 

(“Credit Committee”), including Nocella and McCann, that banking regulations required new 

appraisals because the loans were over 90 days delinquent (i.e., non-performing loans).   

       49.    On September 25, 2007, Nocella sent an email to Jones stating that the Bank 

needed “to get a paper close [on the Strathmore modifications] by Fri. to make numbers.”   

       50.    Also on September 25, Nocella and McCann made       an investor presentation at a 

conference hosted by RBC.  During the conference, Nocella   and McCann told investors that th e 

asset quality in the builder portfolio was stable to improving, that Franklin anticipated a decrease 

in the overall level of non-performing assets by the first quarter of 2008, and reiterated its full 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 14 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 15 of 35

year 2007 EPS estimates of $1.22 to $1.26.  When they  made the statements at the RBC 

conference, Nocella and McCann knew, by virtue of internal delinquency reports that they 

reviewed, that Franklin’s delinquencies continued to increase. Accordingly, they also knew, or 

were severely reckless in not knowing, that their statement s to investors w ere contingent on 

Franklin’s modification of non-performing loans, including the Strathmore loans.  

       51.    On September 28, based on Nocella and McCann’s presentation at the investment 

conference, RBC issued an analyst report characterizing the purported improvement in the 

quality of Franklin’s loan portfolio as “surprising and very positive.”  RBC reported that “the net 

impact of these fundamental trends is a more positive outlook than we were expecting, 

particularly given the heavy exposure to the mortgage market.” 

       52.    That same day, Nocella convened a special meeting of the Credit Committee to 

address the proposed Strathmore loan modifications.  During this meeting and despite the CCO’s 

objections to the Strathmore loan modifications, the Credit Committee, including Nocella and 

McCann, agreed   to modify the Strathmore loans by approving an interest reserve sufficient to 

cover the next 12 months’ interest payments.   

       53.    Nocella and McCann, as the Bank’s senior executives and top account  ants, knew 

that the loan modifications would have material accounting implications for the Bank.  But 

neither Nocella nor McCann undertook to determine the appropriate accounting treatment for the 

Strathmore modification.  Likewise, Nocella and McCann both failed to analyze whether the 

Strathmore loan should be impaired as a result of the borrower’s inability to make timely 

payments under the terms of the loan agreement.   

       54.    By September 28, 2007, the Strathmore loans were over four payments past due, 

and therefore, non-performing.  Moreover, because the Strathmore borrower was insolvent  , it 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 15 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 16 of 35

could not demonstrate that it had the ability to make payments on the loan.  Accordingly, the 

Strathmore loans, consistent with the Bank’s publicly stated policies relating to non-performing 

loans, should have been reflected as non-performing in Franklin’s third quarter 10-Q, and the 

Bank should have impaired the Strathmore loans.  However, during the third  quarter of 2007, 

Franklin did not conduct an impairment analysis of the Strathmore loans, and did not impair 

them as required by GAAP.   

       55.    In October 2007, the FDIC examined Franklin and discovered the Strathmore 

modifications.  The FDIC determined that the “Strathmore loans warranted placement on 

nonaccrual and evaluation for impairment” under SFAS 114.  Under SFAS 114, Franklin was 

required to impair the loans because in light of Strathmore’s distressed financial condition, it was 

improbably that Franklin would be able to collect all principle and interest due on the loan.   

       56.    Despite their certification of the Bank’s publicly stated nonaccrual policy, their 

participation in the Strathmore modification, and their awareness of the Strathmore borrower’s 

financial distress, Nocella and McCann failed to include the Strathmore loans in the Bank’s 

public disclosure of non-performing assets and non-performing loans. 

       57.    As a result of their improper accounting treatment for the Strathmore loan 

modifications, Nocella and McCann cau  sed Franklin to understate its non-performing loans by 

$13.5 million in the third quarter 10-Q, representing an 81% understatement of non-performing 

loans and a 24% understatement of non- performing assets.  Because the Strathmore loans were 

not impaired and the Bank continued to recogni ze interest income on the non-performing loans, 

Nocella and McCann caused Franklin to overstate   its reported earnings by at least $2.7 million 

(36% of reported earnings) in the 3rd
                                     quarter of 2007. 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 16 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 17 of 35

       58.    On December 20, 2007, Franklin filed a Form 10-Q/A for the third   quarter of 

2007, amending its treatment of the Strathmore loans to reflect the loans as TDRs.  But the 10-

Q/A did not disclose the other modification programs  (Fresh Start and Great News).  

Accordingly, Nocella and McCann continued to understate   Franklin’s non-performing loans 

(23%) and non-performing assets (10%) relating to the other programs. 

              3.      Great News 

       59.    Based on the information that Cooper had provided regarding the Fresh Start 

modifications and the Defendants’ later authorization of the Strathmore modifications, Nocella 

told investors at an RBC investor conference on September 25, 2007 that Franklin anticipated 

that non-performing assets would decrease by the end of 2007.   

       60.    After the end of Franklin’s third quarter, on October 1, 2007, Franklin’s Credit 

Committee convened to discuss   loans showing credit deterioration.  The draft minutes reflected 

that Cooper reported to members of the Committee that Fresh Start had reduced the Bank’s non  -

performing assets from $14 million to $10 million, which was at least $6 million less than he had 

told Ranieri and Nocella in late September.   

       61.    On October 3, 2007, Cooper  , Nocella, and the other Bank officers, received via 

email from the committee secretary the draft minutes of the meeting for comments and 

corrections.  At least three attendees, including Cooper, responded that the draft accurately 

reflected the discussion during the Credit Committee meeting. 

       62.    On October 4, 2007, Ranieri called Nocella and Cooper to discuss the $6 million 

shortfall in loan modifications.  Indeed, Ranieri was furious that Cooper “had lied” and 

overstated the number of non-performing loans that were modified and brought current during 

the third quarter of 2007.  

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 17 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 18 of 35

       63.    Following Ranieri’s phone call, in an effort to conceal the $6 million shortfall and 

placate Ranieri, Nocella directed Cooper to implement a retroactive, unilateral-loan-modification 

program to reduce the third quarter non -performing loan amounts without requiring a payment 

from the borrower.  At Nocella’s direction, Cooper instructed Sharon Koehl  (“Koehl”), a senior 

loan officer at the Bank, to generate a list of severely delinquent                                             borrowers ( i.e., more than four 

payments past due) and draft a letter to them.   

       64.    On or about October 5, 2007, Nocella reviewed and approved the modification 

letter that became known as the “Great News letter,” and directed that the letter be sent to 28 

single-family borrowers whose loans were classified as non-performing.  Although these loans 

were severely delinquent—betw   een 119 and 545 days past due—the Great News letter advised 

the borrowers that the ir loans were now current and that, to remain current, borrowers only 

needed to make their next scheduled payment.    

       65.    Also on October 5, 2007, Nocella caused   the draft  of the minutes from the 

October 1, 2007 Credit Committee meeting to be revised to reflect that non-performing assets 

dropped from $14 million to $4 million.  According to Cooper, the additional $6 million 

decrease (i.e., from $14 million to $10 million to $14 million to $4 million) reflected unilateral 

modifications made after the October 1st
                                         credit committee meeting ( i.e., in the company’s fourth 

quarter) pursuant to the Great News program. 

       66.    After the Great News letters were mailed, Koehl sent the list of borrowers to a 

member of the Bank’s mortgage department    that was  responsible for updating the loan servicing 

system.  Koehl instructed the employee to reflect the Great News loans as current in Franklin’s 

accounting system.  In response, the employee approached Cooper to confirm that he understood 

that rolling the loans current in the accounting system would alter Franklin’s financial records. 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 18 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 19 of 35

       67.    In response to the employee’s concerns, Cooper sought guidance from McCann 

regarding the accounting treatment for the Great News loans.  In response, McCann told Cooper 

that: (i) Franklin could book the non-performing loans as performing based on the date the 

decision to modify was made; and (ii) the Great News modifications were an “isolated case” to 

test the accounting treatment.   

       68.    By the end of the third quarter of 2007, the Great News loans were significantly 

over four payments past due, and therefore, non-performing.  Moreover, none of the Great News 

borrowers made payments; therefore, none of the Great News borrowers could have 

demonstrated the ability to make payments on the loan.  Accordingly, the Great News loans, 

consistent with the Bank’s publicly stated policy on non-performing assets and the Asset Policies 

should have been reflected as non-performing in Franklin’s third quarter 10-Q. 

       69.    Like the Fresh Start loans, the modified Great News loans included a concession 

to the borrower: Franklin lowered the debtors’ effective borrowing rates by deferring overdue 

interest payments, without interest, until a one-time balloon payment at maturity of the loan.  

Accordingly, the Great News loans should have been treated as TDRs, and Franklin was required 

to impair them pursuant to SFAS 114.  However, during the third  quarter of 2007, Franklin did 

not conduct an impairment analysis of any of the loans modified under the Great News program 

as required by GAAP. 

       70.    In addition, Nocella and McCann, by virtue of their experience as CPAs and as 

long-time executives at public companies, knew that it was improper to use a program 

implemented in the fourth quarter of 2007 to fix Franklin’s third quarter financial results.  In fact, 

during an internal investigation that followed revelations of Franklin’s improper disclosure and 

accounting practices, Nocella attempted to coerce Koehl into stating that the Great News 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 19 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 20 of 35

program began before the end of the third quarter of 2007.  Nocella’s efforts to cover up his 

misconduct further evidence his intent to deceive.   

       71.    As a result of Franklin’s failure to appropriately treat the Great News loans as 

TDRs and impair the m and the Bank’s continued recognition of interest income on these non-

performing loans, Nocella and McCann caused Franklin to overstate its  earnings by 

approximately $1.8 million (24% of reported earnings).  

       72.    By virtue of the Great News program , Nocella and McCann concealed from 

investors $7 million of non-performing loans in its third quarter 10-Q, representing a 42% 

understatement of non-performing loans and a 13% understatement of non   -performing assets. 

       73.    Despite their certification of the Bank’s publicly stated policy on non- performing 

loans, their knowledge that loan modifications had accounting implications that they had not 

resolved (as evidenced, for example, by their August 30, 2007 email exchange), their 

participation in the Great News modification, and their awareness of the Great News borrower’s 

financial distress, Nocella and McCann failed to include the Great News loans in the Bank’s 

disclosure of non-performing assets and non-performing loans.  

       74.    On August 6, 2008, Franklin filed a Form 8-K admitting   that it failed to “account 

for certain single family mortgage loan modification programs developed and implemented in 

the 3rd
       and 4th
              quarters of 2007 [including  Great News] as TDRs, and did not place these loans on 

non-accrual status.”   

E.     Nocella and McCann’s Fraudulent Disclosures 

       75.    As described  above, Nocella and McCann closely monitored monthly reports 

indicating that Franklin delinquencies were increasing.  In fact, in preparation for filing 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 20 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 21 of 35

Franklin’s third quarter 10-Q, McCann reviewed a spreadsheet identifying the modified loans 

and indicating that those loans were removed from the Bank’s delinquency reports.   

       76.    The following chart, based on Franklin’s delinquency reports reviewed by 

Nocella and McCann, summarizes the increase in Franklin’s non- performing single-family and 

residential construction loans during the third  quarter of 2007:  

                                Non-performing Loans (in millions) 

                                      Single         Residential       Total 
                                      Family         Construction 

                  June 30, 2007           $9.9           $4.9              $14.8 

                  July 31, 2007           $10.1          $12.0             $22.1 

                  August 31, 2007         $12.0          $12.3             $24.3 

                  September 30,           $2.9           $12.6             $15.5 
                      2007 
                      (reported) 

                  September 30,           $13.9          $26.1             $40.0 
                      2007 (actual) 

 

       77.    Despite the clear trend indicating that delinquencies were increasing, Nocella and 

McCann signed and certified the Bank’s third quarter 10-Q, including the statement that “an 

increase in non-performing commercial loans . . . was offset by a reduction of non-performing 

single family mortgages of $9.5 million” (emphasis added).   In light of these clear trends and 

each Defendant ’s focus on the delinquency issue during the third quarter of 2007, including the 

September 22, 2007 email exchange between Nocella and Cooper discussi   ng “NPL,” both 

Nocella and McCann knew that the loan modification schemes were aimed at converting non-

performing loans into performing loans.   

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                       Page 21 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 22 of 35

       78.    Nocella and McCann disseminated Franklin’s false financial performance to the 

public by: (i) filing a Form 8-K on October 30, 2007 containing the press release announcing 

Franklin’s third quarter performance; (ii) speaking on a quarterly earnings conference call held 

on October 30, 2007; (iii) filing a third quarter Form  10-Q on November 9, 2007; and (iv) filing 

a third  quarter Form 10- Q/A on December 20, 2007.   

       79.    On August 6, 2008, Franklin filed a Form 8  -K and disclosed that “it did not 

account for certain single family mortgage loan modification programs developed and 

implemented in the 3 rd
                       and 4th
                              quarters of 2007 as TDRs, and did not place these loans on non-

accrual status.”  As a result of the Fresh Start, Strathmore, and Great News modifications, 

Franklin was able to report non-performing loans of $16.6 million for the third quarter 2007.  

Had the Bank properly accounted for the modification programs, Franklin’s non-performing 

loans would have increased by $24.5 million (or 147%) and its non-performing assets would 

have increased by 44%. The majority of these modifications ($21 million) took place after the 

RBC investor conference on September 25, 2007.  Indeed, as a result of the loan modifications, 

Franklin was able to report that non-performing assets were flat for the third quarter, which was: 

(i) consistent with Nocella and McCann’s false statements at the RBC conference; and (ii) 

especially significant to investors in light of the rise in delinquencies and non-performing assets 

at other banks during this time period. 

       80.    As a result of failing to properly account for the loan modification programs in 

accordance with GAAP and appropriately classifying the modified loans as non-performing 

assets consistent with Franklin’s publicly stated policies, Nocella and McCann misled investors 

in Franklin’s   public statements as follows: 

        

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 22 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 23 of 35

 Non-performing Assets/Non-performing Loans               Maker(s)            Filing(s)/Event(s) 

 Misstatement: Franklin “had $55.4 million in non-
 performing assets, comprised of $16.6 million in non-    Nocella and         10-Q                                    
 performing loans.”                                       McCann              8-K 

 Reality: Franklin had $79.9 million of non-performing 
 assets, and $41.1 million of non-performing loans.                             

 Misstatement:  “Loans are generally placed on 
 nonaccrual status upon becoming four payments past       Nocella and         10-Q                            
 due as to interest or principal.”                           McCann           10-Q/A 

 Reality:  Nocella and McCann knew, by virtue of their 
 direct participation in the loan modification programs, 
 that the Fresh Start, Strathmore, and Great News 
 programs included loans that were four or more 
 payments past due.  They also knew that Franklin was 
 not placing the modified loans “on nonaccrual status.”                         

 Misstatement: “The overall delinquency trends point-
 to-point, that’s June 30th to right now are flat.”            Nocella        3rd Quarter Call 

 Reality: Nocella knew that the number of 
 delinquencies in the Bank’s loan portfolio was 
 continuing to increase, when compared to the number 
 of delinquencies as of June 30th
                                . Nocella also knew that 
 Franklin had improperly treated $24.5 million of non-
 performing loans and non-performing assets as current 
 during the 3rd quarter.                                     

 Misstatement: Franklin’s “non-performing loans as a                           
 percentage of total assets remained stable…[and] our 
 non performing assets increase[d] slightly in            McCann              3rd Quarter Call 
 relationship to our portfolio."  
 Reality: McCann knew that Franklin’s non-performing 
 loans, absent improper adjustments relating to Fresh 
 Start, Strathmore, and Great News, were actually $41.1 
 million during the 3rd
                       quarter of 2007, which was a 
 152% increase over the previous quarter.                                       

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 23 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 24 of 35

 Misstatement: Franklin had “$68.9 million in non-
 performing assets, comprised of $16.6 million in loans 
 that were four payments or more delinquent in 
 nonaccrual status, $13.5 million of restructured loans   Nocella and 
 on nonaccrual and $38.8 million of real estate owned.”   McCann              10-Q/A 

 Reality: Franklin had $79.9 million of non-performing 
 assets and $41.1 million of non-performing loans “that 
 were four payments or more delinquent” during the 3 rd
                                                        
 quarter of 2007.                                                               

 Earnings/ Net Income 

 Misstatement: Franklin earned $7.5 million in net                             
 income.                                                  Nocella and         10-Q 
                                                          McCann              8-K 
 Reality: Franklin earned $1.8 million in net income for 
 the 3rd
        quarter of 2007.                                                        

 Loan Loss Reserves   

 Misstatement: “Management believes that the                                   
 allowance for credit losses is adequate to cover known 
 and inherent risks in the loan portfolio as of September   Nocella and       10-Q                         
 30, 2007.”                                               McCann              10-Q/A 

 Reality: By August 2008, Franklin had determined that 
 its financial disclosures for the 3rd
                                   quarter of 2007 
 understated reserves by $2.9 million for the Great 
 News and Fresh Start modification programs and $2.2 
 million for the Strathmore TDR.                                                

 

F.     Nocella and McCann’s Lies to Franklin’s Auditor 

       81.    Despite their extensive knowledge of and participation in the loan modification 

scheme, Nocella and McCann certified the accuracy of the disclosures  in the Forms 10- Q and 10-

Q/A for the third quarter of 2007.  For each filing, they certified (in pertinent part) that: 
                                                                                      (i) they 

had individually reviewed the filing; (ii) it did not contain any untrue statement of a material fact 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 24 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 25 of 35

or omit to state a material fact; and (iii) the financial statements and other financial information, 

fairly presented in all material respects the issuer’s financial condition, results of operations, and 

cash flows.  Nocella and McCann, by virtue of their loan modification scheme, concealed from 

shareholders rising delinquencies and overstated Franklin’s earnings.   

       82.    Moreover, as part of the quarterly review and in advance of filing the Forms 10-Q 

and 10-Q/A, Nocella and McCann signed management representation letters to Franklin’s 

auditors on November 9, 2007 and December 19, 2007.  The letters represented, among other 

things that: (i) the financial statements conformed with GAAP; ( ii) Franklin’s internal controls 

over financial reporting were established and maintained; (iii) “all impaired loans receivable 

have been properly recorded and disclosed in the financial statements;” and ( iv) “[l]oans that 

have been restructured to provide a reduction or deferral of interest or principal payments 

because of borrower financial difficulties have been properly recorded and disclosed in the 

financial statements” (emphasis added).  As detailed above, these statements were false, and 

were made by Nocella and McCann in furtherance of their scheme to conceal rising 

delinquencies and to overstate earnings. 

G.     Franklin’s Corrective Disclosures, Internal Investigation, and Failure 

       83.    On November 26, 2007, Franklin issued a press release announcing, among other 

things, that it should have classified an additional $13.5 million in loans as non-performing (due 

to Strathmore), and that it would increase reserves by $20 million.  Despite discussions with the 

FDIC and its auditors about the Strathmore TDRs and the similarity between them and the 

single-family-modification programs, Franklin did not disclose the Fresh Start and Great News 

programs as part of the press release. 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 25 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 26 of 35

       84.    On February 19, 2008, a Franklin employee wrote Franklin’s general counsel 

alleging fiscal irregularities at Franklin.  This complaint prompted Franklin’s audit committee to 

retain counsel to investigate.  As a result, on March 14, 2008, Franklin announced that it would 

delay filing its 2007 Form 10-K (it ultimately never made further periodic SEC filings).  The 

internal investigation found that Franklin, through the Fresh Start and Great News programs, 

improperly treated nonperforming assets as performing assets . 

       85.    On August 6, 2008, Franklin filed a Form 8-K disclosing that accounting issued 

required Franklin to restate its financial statements in its third quarter 10-Q.  In fact, due to 

Franklin’s material non-compliance with the financial reporting requirements of the federal 

securities laws, which were the result of the misconduct described herein, Franklin was required 

to issue accounting restatements.   

       86.    On November 7, 2008, the Texas Department of Savings and Mortgage Lending 

closed Franklin Bank, S.S.B., and the FDIC was appointed Receiver.  On November 12, 2008, 

Franklin Bank Corp. filed Chapter 7 bankruptcy, and the court appointed a trustee.  As a result of 

the Bank’s failure, Franklin did not file the required restatement of its financial results. 

H.     Defendants’ Bonus Compensation 

       87.    As CEO, Defendant Nocella received $25,000 in bonuses from the Bank during 

the twelve months following the filing of the false financials.   

       88.    As CFO, Defendant McCann received $50,000 in bonuses from the Bank during 

the twelve months following the filing of the false financials.   

       89.    In order to prevent senior executives from profiting from the filing of inaccurate 

financial statements, Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires an issuer’s CEO and CFO 

to repay to the issuer any incentive-based compensation, equity-based compensation, bonuses, 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                         Page 26 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 27 of 35

and stock-sale profits (“SOX 304 compensation”)  the executives received during the twelve 

months following the date on which the original financial statement (giving rise to the 

restatement) was issued or filed with the Commission (whichever comes first), if those financial 

results are later required to be restated as a result of misconduct.   

       90.    Franklin was required to restate its financials for the third quarter 2007 as a result 

of the misconduct of Nocella and McCann.  However, neither Defendant has repaid Franklin the 

SOX 304 compensation he received. 

                                   CLAIMS FOR RELIEF 

                                          COUNT 1 

                           Fraud in Violation of the Exchange Act    
         Section 10(b) [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5 [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5] 
                                                 
       91.    The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       92.    Defendants Nocella and McCann directly and indirectly, by use of the means and 

instrumentalities of interstate commerce, and of the mails in connection with the purchase or sale 

of securities, knowingly, willfully or recklessly: (a) employed devices, schemes or artifices to 

defraud; (b) made untrue statements of material facts and omitted to state material facts 

necessary in order to make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which 

they were made, not misleading; and/or (c) engaged in acts, practices and courses of business 

which have operated, are now operating and will operate as a fraud upon the purchasers of such 

securities.  

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 27 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 28 of 35

       93.    By reason of the foregoing, Defendants Nocella and McCann     directly or 

indirectly, violated, and are reasonably likely to continue to violate, unless enjoined, Section 

10(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-

5.  

                                          COUNT II 
                                                 
                    Aiding and Abetting Violations of the Exchange Act      
         Section 10(b) [15 U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5 [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5] 
       94.    The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       95.    Franklin, directly and indirectly, by use of the means and instrumentalities of 

interstate commerce, and of the mails in connection with the purchase or sale of securities, 

knowingly, willfully or recklessly: (a) employed devices, schemes or artifices to defraud; (b) 

made untrue statements of material facts and omitted to state material facts necessary in order to 

make the statements made, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not 

misleading; and/or (c) engaged in acts, practices and courses of business which have operated, 

are now operating and will operate as a fraud upon the purchasers of such securities. 

       96.    Defendants Nocella and McCann, directly and indirectly, each had a general 

awareness that he was part of an overall activity that was improper or illegal and knowingly, or 

with severe recklessness, provided substantial assistance to violations by Franklin of Section 

10(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), and Rules 10b-5 thereunder, 17 C.F.R. § 

240.10b-5. 

       97.    By reason of the foregoing, Defendant s Nocella and McCann  aided and abetted 

Franklin’s violations, and is reasonably likely to again aid and abet Franklin’s violations, unless 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 28 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 29 of 35

enjoined, Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78j(b), and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, 17 

C.F.R. § 240.10b-5.  

                                         COUNT III 
                                                
     Aiding and Abetting Violations of the Reporting Provisions of the Exchange Act       
                    (Section 13(a) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13) 
       [15 U.S.C. § 78m(a) and 17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-11, and 240.13a-13] 
 
       98.    The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       99.    Defendants Nocella and McCann knowingly, or with severe recklessness , signed 

and filed materially false and misleading periodic reports and a current report with the 

Commission that misrepresented Franklin’s: (a) non-performing assets, (b) non-performing 

loans, and (c) net income.   

       100.   Franklin: failed to timely and accurately file reports with the Commission 

regarding its assets, liabilities, and net income; failed to include material information in its 

required statements and reports as was necessary to make the statements made, in light of the 

circumstances under which they were made, not misleading  ; and filed or caused to be filed with 

the Commission materially false and misleading financial and informational statements.  These 

filings misstated Franklin’s non-performing loans, non-performing assets, and net income. 

       101.   By reason of the foregoing, Franklin violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act 

[15 U.S.C. § 78m(a)] and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 [17 C.F.R. §§ 

240.12b-20, 240.13a-11, and 240.13a-13]. 

       102.   Nocella and McCann knowingly, or with severe recklessness , gave substantial 

assistance to Franklin in its violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(a)] 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                       Page 29 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 30 of 35

and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 [17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-11, and 

240.13a-13].  

       103.   By reason of the foregoing, Nocella and McCann aided and abetted Franklin’s 

violations, and unless restrained and enjoined will continue to aid and abet such violations, of 

Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(a)], and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11, and 13a-13 

[17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-11, and 240.13a-13]. 

                                         COUNT IV 
                                                
Aiding and Abetting Violation   s of the Books and Records and Internal Control Provisions 
                                     of the Exchange Act 
                            (Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B))  
                        [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)] 
       104.   The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       105.   By engaging in the foregoing misconduct, Franklin, whose securities are 

registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78l]: (a) failed to make and 

keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected the 

transactions and dispositions of its assets; and (b) failed to devise and maintain a system of 

internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that:  (a) transactions were recorded 

as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP or any other 

criteria applicable to such statements, and (b) to maintain accountability of assets. 

       106.   By engaging in the foregoing misconduct, Franklin violated Sections 13(b)(2)(A) 

and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

       107.    Nocella and McCann knowingly , or with severe recklessness , provided 

substantial assistance to Franklin in its failure to make and keep books, records, and accounts, 

which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected the transactions and dispositions 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 30 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 31 of 35

Franklin’s assets and in failing to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 

sufficient to reasonably assure that transactions were recorded and financial statements were 

prepared in conformity with GAAP. 

       108.   By reason of the foregoing, Nocella and McCann aided and abetted Franklin’s 

violations, and unless restrained and enjoined will continue to aid and abet violations of Section 

13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A) and (B) ]. 

                                         COUNT V 
                                               
                 Circumventing or Failing to Implement Internal Controls 
                     (Exchange Act Section 13(b)(5) and Rule 13b2-1)  
                    [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5) and 17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-1] 
                                               
       109.   The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       110.   By engaging in the foregoing misconduct, Defendants Nocella and McCann 

violated, and unless enjoined will continue to violate, Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 

U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5)] and Rule 13b2- 1 [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2- 1] by knowingly circumventing or 

knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls at Franklin, or by 

knowingly falsifying, or causing to be falsified, Franklin’s books, records, or accounts subject to 

Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5)].  

                                        COUNT VI 
                                               
                     Misrepresentations and Misconduct in Connection 
                         with the Preparation of Required Reports 
                (Exchange Act Rules 13b2-2(a) [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2- 2(a)] 
       111.   The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       112.   By engaging in the foregoing misconduct Nocella and McCann violated Exchange 

Act Rule 13b2-2(a) [17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-2a] by, directly or indirectly, making, or causing to be 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                      Page 31 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 32 of 35

made, materially false or misleading statements, or omitting to state, or causing another person to 

omit to state, material facts necessary in order to make statements made, in light of the 

circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading, to an accountant in 

connection with (a) an audit, review or examination of the financial statements of Franklin 

required to be made pursuant to Commission rules, or (b) the preparation or filing of  documents 

or reports required to be filed with the Commission.  

                                         COUNT VII 
                                                 
                   Violations of Certifications Rules of the Exchange Act 
                    (Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 [17 C.F.R. § 240.13a-14]) 
                                                 
       113.   The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       114.   Acting under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and Exchange Act 

Rule 13a-14, Nocella and McCann certified on behalf of Franklin Forms 10-  Q on November 9, 

2007, and 10-Q/A on December 20, 2007.  

       115.   Specifically, Nocella and McCann certified that they had reviewed these reports 

and that, based on their respective knowledge, the reports did not contain any untrue statements 

of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light 

of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; and, based on their 

knowledge, the financial statements and other financial information included in the reports, fairly 

presented in all material respects the financial condition, results of operation and cash flows of 

Franklin for the periods presented on the reports. 

       116.   At the time Nocella and McCann issued these certifications, they knew or were 

severely reckless in not knowing that the reports they certified contained untrue statements of 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 32 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 33 of 35

material facts and/or omitted to state material facts necessary to make the statements made 

therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading. 

       117.   By reason of the foregoing, Nocella and McCann violated and unless enjoined 

will continue to violate Exchange Act Rule 13a-14 [17 C.F.R. § 240.13a-14] promulgated under 

Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. 

                                        COUNT VIII 

                                    Failure to Reimburse 
   (Violation of Section 304(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 [15 U.S.C. § 7243(b)]   ) 
       118.   The Commission realleges and incorporates by reference Paragraphs 1 

through 90. 

       119.   Nocella and McCann, by engaging in the aforementioned conduct, caused 

Franklin to file Forms  8-K dated October 30, 2007, Form 10-Q for the period ended September 

30, 2007, and Form 10-Q/A for the period ended September 30,2007, that were in material non -

compliance with its financial reporting requirements under the federal securities laws. 

       120.   Due to Franklin’s material non-compliance with its financial reporting 

requirements, and as a result of the misconduct of Nocella and McCann, Franklin was required to 

prepare accounting restatements for the quarter ended September 30, 2007.   

       121.   Defendants have failed to reimburse Franklin for the SOX 304 compensation 

received or obtained during the statutory time periods established by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 

2002. 

       122.   The Commission has not exempted Defendants, pursuant to Section 304(b) of the 

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 [15 U.S.C. § 7243(b)], from its application under Section 304(a) [15 

U.S.C. § 7243(a)]. 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                       Page 33 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 34 of 35

       123.   By engaging in the conduct described above, Defendants violated, and unless 

ordered to comply will continue to violate, Section 304(a) of the Act, 15 U.S.C. § 7243(a). 

                                  REQUEST FOR RELIEF 

   For these reasons, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court enter a final 

judgment: 

   a)  permanently enjoining Nocella and McCann from violating Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) 

       of the Securities Exchange Act of    1934 (“Exchange Act”) and Rules 10b-  5, 13a -14, 

       13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder; 

   b)  permanently enjoin Nocella and McCann from aiding and abetting violations of Sections 

       10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act and Rules 10b- 5, 12b-20, 

       13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder; 

   c)  ordering Defendants to disgorge all ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment interest; 

   d)  ordering Defendants to pay civil penalties under Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act  

       [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]; 

   e)  prohibiting each Defendant, under Section 21(d)(2) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 

       §78u(d)(2)], from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class of 

       securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78l] or that is 

       required to file reports under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78o(d)]; 

   f)  in a form consistent with Fed. R. Civ. P. 65(d), ordering Nocella and McCann to 

       reimburse Franklin for bonuses pursuant to Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 

       2002 [15 U.S.C. § 7243]; and 

   g)  granting such other relief as the Court may deem just and appropriate.  

 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                        Page 34 
Complaint 
---------------------Page 35---------------------

    Case 4:12-cv-01051   Document 1    Filed in TXSD on 04/05/12   Page 35 of 35

Dated:  April 5, 2012              Respectfully submitted,                            
                                    

                                   /s/ Jennifer D. Brandt                             
                                   Jennifer D. Brandt 
                                   Texas Bar No. 00796242 
                                   Toby M. Galloway 
                                   Texas Bar No. 00790733 
                                   Michael D. King 
                                   Texas Bar No. 24032634   
                                   United States Securities and Exchange Commission  
                                   801 Cherry Street, 19th Floor  
                                   Fort Worth, TX  76102  
                                   Phone: (817) 978-6442 (jb) 
                                   Fax: (817) 978-4927 
                                   brandtj@sec.gov 
                                   ATTORNEYS FOR PLAINTIFF 
                                                   
 
 

SEC v. Anthony J. Nocella, et al.                                                     Page 35 
Complaint 
