---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED  STATES      DISTRICT     COURT
 
                          FOR   THE   DISTRICT    OF  COLUMBIA
 

UNITED  STATES  SECURITIES
 
AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION,
 
100 F St., N.E.
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 

                           Plaintiff, 

                                                          Civil Action No. 
                                                                           -----
        v.
 
                                                      Case:  1:09-cv-02386
 
JOHN   W. DWYER, 
                                                      Assigned   To:   Kollar-Kotelly,  Colleen 
2 South 375 Canterberiy  Court 
                                                      Assign.  Date:   12/17/2009
Glen Ellyn, Illinois  60137, 
                                                      Description:   General   Civil 
                           Defendant. 

                                       COMPLAINT 

       Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission  ("Commission"),  for its complaint against 

defendant John W.  Dwyer ("Dwyer"   or "defendant"),  alleges: 

                                NATURE     OF  THE  ACTION 

        1.    Dwyer, the Chief Financial Officer ofBally Total Fitness Holding Corporation 

 ("Bally") during the relevant time, violated the anti-fraud  provisions,  and aided and abetted 

 Bally's violations ofthe reporting, record-keeping,  and internal controls provisions, ofthe 

 Federal securities laws.  As described below, Dwyer is responsible  for Bally's  materially false 

 and misleading  statements about its financial condition  in filings with the Commission and in 

 other public statements from at least fiscal year 2001 through  fiscal year 2003.  These materially 

 false and misleading  statements portrayed Bally's financial  condition (its net worth) and its 

 perfonnance  (its net income) as being materially better than they actually were during the 

 relevant period, and also failed to disclose the reasons  for certain recorded adjustments and 

 accounting changes. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       2.     Bally's misrepresentations  about its financial  condition and performance,  for 

which Dwyer was responsible,  were the result   of Bally's employment   of accounting methods 

that were not in conformity  with generally accepted  accounting  principles  ("GAAP")  and were 

fraudulent.  On November  30, 2005, Bally filed its 2004 Form 10-K, which restated  its 

previously  reported financial statements  for the years ended December 31, 2002, and 2003, and 

restated selected financial data for the years ended December  31, 2001, and December  31, 2000. 

The restatement  acknowledged  more than two dozen different accounting  improprieties  that 

materially  affected Bally's financial statements  during the relevant period; 

       3.     Those accounting  improprieties,  some  of which are charged herein as fraudulent, 

had a material effect on the accuracy of Bally's financial  statements.  For example, Bally 

originally reported in its 2001 Form  lO-K that its year-end  2001 shareholders'  equity, or net 

worth, was positive $513  million.  In truth, Bally's year-end 2001 net worth was negative $1.3 

billion.  Simply put, Bally overstated its year-end 2001 net worth  by $1.8 billion. 

       4.     Bally's accounting  fraud and improprieties  continued through 2003.  As a result, 

Bally understated  its originally reported 2002 loss before income  tax by $94.2 million.  Bally 

also understated  its originally reported  2003 loss before income tax by $90.8 million.  In 

addition to being included in the annual Forms  10-K, these materially false and misleading 

financial statements  were also included annual earnings releases filed as exhibits  to Forms 8-K 

and in registration  statements  (and amendments  thereto)  filed by Bally in 2001, 2002, and 2003. 

       5.     As  a result ofthe conduct described below, Dwyer violated  Section  17(a)   ofthe 

Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities  Act"), and Sections 1O(b) and 13(b)(5)  ofthe  Exchange Act 

of 1934 ("Exchange  Act") and Rules  10b-5 and 13b2-1 thereunder,  and aided and abetted 

Bally's  violations of Sections  13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) ofthe Exchange  Act and 

Rules 12b-20,  13a-l, 13a-ll  and 13a-13 thereunder. 

                                                2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                               JURISDICTION  AND        VENUE
 

       6.     Ibis Court has jurisdiction  over this action pursuant to Sections 20(b) and 22(a) 

ofthe Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §§77t(b) &  v(a)] and Sections 21(e) and 27 of the Exchange 

Act [15 U.S.C. §§78u(e) and 78aa]. 

       7.     Defendant directly or indirectly made use ofthe means or instrumentalities  of 

interstate commerce, or ofthe mails, or the facilities ofa national securities exchange in 

connection with the transactions,  acts, practices and courses ofbusiness alleged herein. 

       8.     Venue is proper in this District pursuant to section 22(a) of-the Securities Act [15 

U.S.c.  §77v(a)] and sections 21(d)(I)  and 27 ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.c.  §§ 78u(d)(I), 

78aa] because, among other reasons, some   of the conduct constituting the violations occurred 

within this District. 

                                        DEFENDANT 

       9.     John W. Dwyer, age 57, was Bally's  CFO from May 1994 to April 2004, when he 

was forced to resign.  Prior to his employment at Bally, Dwyer was an audit partner in the 

Chicago office of Ernst & Young LLP.  At all relevant times, Dwyer was a certified public 

accountant. 

                                  RELEVANT ENTITIES 

       10.   Bally Total Fitness Holding Corporation, a Delaware corporation, purported to be 

the largest, and only nationwide, commercial operator of fitness centers. At all relevant times, 

Bally's common stock was registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b)    of the 

Exchange Act and traded  on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE").  The NYSE delisted 

Bally's common stock on June 8, 2007.  After filing for reorganization under Chapter  11 ofthe 

Bankruptcy Code, on September 17,2007,  Bally emerged as a privately held reorganized entity. 

On February 28,2008,  the Commission filed a settled injunctive action against Bally in the 

                                               3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

United States District Court for the District ofColumbia, charging  Bally with violating Section 

17(a) ofthe Securities  Act, Sections 10(b), 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) ofthe Exchange 

Act, and Rules IOb-5, 12b-20, 13a-l,  13a-ll and 13a-13 thereunder.  The District Court issued 

permanent injunctions on May 8, 2008. 

       11.   Ernst & Young LLP ("E&Y") is a national public accounting  firm and, during the 

relevant period, was Bally's  independent auditor.  E&Y issued unqualified  audit opinions for 

each of the relevant years. 

                                 STATEMENT        OF  FACTS
 

                               Bally's Fraudulent   Accounting
 

                                         Background
 

       12.   Bally became a publicly traded company at the beginning     of 1996, as a result of 

being spun off from its parent corporation, Bally Entertainment Corporation.  At the time  ofthe 

spin-off, Bally had a reported accumulated deficit of$52.8  million as of year-end 1995. 

       13.   Bally's  principal source ofrevenue was selling gym membership  contracts, which 

provided customers access to gyms in exchange for the payment    of a one-time initiation fee and 

monthly dues.  Failure to pay either would result in cancellation ofthe membership.  The one­

time fee was typically several thousand dollars, while the monthly dues typically were less than 

$10 per month.  Most  of Bally's  customers financed their initiation fees.  Since the initiation 

fees were Bally's  biggest source ofrevenue, Bally required a stream of new  customers to 

succeed. 

       14.   As Bally's  CFO for fiscal years 1997 through 2003, Dwyer was responsible for 

ensuring that Bally's  financial statements and accounting were in conformity with GAAP. 

Insteadof doing so, however, Dwyer established,  directed, and/or approved   ofnumerous 

fraudulent and other accounting improprieties described below.  These fraudulent accounting 

                                               4
 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

practices and improprieties principally  served (a) to overstate Bally's gross revenue, and thus 

overstate Bally's  net income (or understate Bally's net loss); (b) to understate Bally's expenses, 

and thus overstate Bally's net income (or understate  Bally's net loss); or (c) to understate Bally's 

accumulated deficit as of December 31, 2001, and thus overstate Bally's net worth. 

       15.   In addition, Dwyer was also responsible  for Bally's  disclosures relating to various 

accounting adjustments and accounting changes.  Dwyer knew       or was reckless in not knowing 

that various ofBally's  disclosures in 2002 and 2003, relating to certain recorded adjustments 

and accounting changes, were false and misleading. 

                              Bally  Fraudulently   Overstated   its
 
                          Gross  Revenue   from  "Reactivation   Fees"
 

       16.   As early as 1997, Bally recognized revenue from what it called "reactivations," 

which were payments from Bally members who had completed their  initial contract period, but 

whose memberships were canceled for failure to pay the monthly dues necessary to maintain 

their membership.  Bally did not attempt to recover those dues because there was no legal 

obligation to pay those dues.  Accordingly, for those canceled members who had completed 

their initial contract period, Bally waited at least six months after receiving their last payment 

and then began soliciting those canceled members to reactivate.  Those who accepted the 

reactivation offers did so, on average, approximately  36 months after having stopped paying 

monthly dues.  The reactivation offers did not contain claims for or seek payment   of "past due" 

amounts.  Instead, they asked for either a nominal reactivation  fee or no reactivation  fee at all, 

and the payment  of monthly dues for a period  of future service, generally 12 months. 

        17.   Bally's method  of accounting for reactivations was to project (as of theb<l1ance 

sheet date) the reactivation payments it anticipated receiving during the coming year and 

                                                5
 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

immediately recognize most   of these projected  paYments by improperly allocating them to past 

periods. 

       18.   Bally's  method  of accounting  for reactivations  was not in conformity  with GAAP 

because Bally recognized revenue before it was earned  and was realized   or realizable.  Bally 

recognized revenue before it was earned because,  among other things, it barred canceled 

members from the   gYmS,  and therefore, had not provided  services to those ofits canceled 

members who might reactivate in the future.  Additionally,  Bally recognized  revenue before it 

was realized or realizable because it was recognizing  revenue for reactivations  that had not yet 

occurred, which it anticipated from canceled members  whom it could not identify individually 

and who had no legal obligation to reactivate or pay Bally.  In short, Bally violated GAAP by 

recognizing revenue related to the anticipated  future paYments before the reactivation 

transactions occurred. 

       19.   Dwyer knew,    or was reckless in not knowing, that Bally's  accounting for 

reactivation fees was not in conformity  with GAAP.  Dwyer failed to prepare any analysis to 

support the reactivation accounting methodology  and was unaware    of any accounting  guidance 

that would support the methodology.  Dwyer knew that Bally had no valid claim against the 

reactivation receivable booked as of the balance sheet date; and knew that the reactivation offers 

themselves made no claim that paYments made pursuant to the offers were intended to cover 

"past dues" or "past delinquency"  obligations. 

       20.   In June 2003, as Bally was in the midst   ofrefinancing its debt and was registering 

a debt offering with the Commission, E&Y called a meeting with Dwyer and other senior 

fmancial officers ofBally.  The meeting was held on June 16,2003  at Bally's  offices.  In the 

course ofthat meeting, the E&Y audit team - which included a senior regional partner and two 

national office partners - told Dwyer that E&Y  would  not provide a comfort letter or consent 

                                                6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

that Bally needed to complete the debt offering unless Bally stopped accruing reactivation 

revenue.  Dwyer resisted the auditor's  demand to stop accruing reactivations,  stating that the 

auditor had approved Bally's  accounting  for years. 

       21.   The auditors suggested that Bally write   off the reactivation  accrual in that quarter 

or over the next several quarters.  Neither alternative was in conformity with GAAP: the $20.3 

million reactivation accrual could not be written off in one quarter because a material error 

requires a restatement under Accounting  Principles Board Opinion No. 20, Accounting 

Changes; and the $20.3 million was material to Bally's  income statement;  Similarly, GAAP 

does not allow spreading the write-off  ofan error over several quarters. 

       22.    In response, Dwyer asked the audit team    if accounting  for reactivations on a cash 

basis was preferable.  After advising Bally management that the auditors would need to consult 

with their national office, the audit team convened in a separate room.  After a period of time, 

E&Y advised Dwyer that the auditor would issue a preferability  letter authorizing Bally to 

change its accounting methodology  for reactivations to a cash basis, thus allowing Bally to 

avoid improperly a restatement.  Subsequently, the auditor issued the preferability letter. 

       23.            On  August 14,2003,  Bally filed with the Commission its Q2 2003 Form 

10-Q, which stated that the Company had changed its "method      of accounting related to the 

recognition of recoveries of unpaid dues under inactive membership  contracts for accrual-based 

estimations to a cash basis ofrecognition."  As a result, Bally improperly recorded a cumulative 

effect charge for the second quarter of 2003 of$20.3  million. 

       24.    Dwyer knew    or was reckless in not knowing that Bally was accounting for 

reactivation fees in a manner that was not in conformity with  GAAP and caused Bally's 

fmancial statements to be materially misstated.  Dwyer also knew    or was reckless in not 

                                                7
 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

knowing that the change in accounting for reactivation  revenue was improperly recorded as a 

change in accounting principle. 

                              Bally Fraudulently   Overstated  its 
                           Gross Revenue  from  "Initiation  Fees" 

       25.   Dwyer was responsible for Bally fraudulently  and prematurely recognizing 

revenue from initiation fees.  As described above, part ofthe price ofa Bally health club 

membership was a one-time initiation fee.  This initiation fee was either paid in full when a 

member joined  or was financed over a period  oftime,  typically 36 months.  Regardless of 

whether the initiation fees were paid in full at the beginning ofthe membership, or financed 

over time, GAAP prohibited Bally from recognizing  all the revenue from initiation fees 

immediately. 

       26.   Instead, GAAP required that Bally recognize initiation fee revenue over the entire 

membership life.  This means that for members who maintained their memberships beyond  the 

financing period, or initial period of membership,  Bally was required to defer initiation fee 

revenue and recognize it over the estimated membership  life, not over the term of the initial 

period of membership. 

       27.   In 1997, Bally adopted the "deferral method"   of accounting for initiation fee 

revenue, pursuant to which Bally recognized initiation  fee revenue over the estimated average 

membership life.  The average membership life  included an estimate for both the average initial 

contract period and the average renewal period.  Bally disclosed that the weighted average 

expected membership life was 22 months for fmanced memberships and 36 months for cash 

memberships. 

       28.   Despite these disclosures, Bally's  estimates ofthe weighted average expected 

membership life were flawed.  A cursory inspection   ofthe computations would have revealed 

                                               8
 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

these flaws.  For example, one  ofthe errors involved omitting renewal periods for many 

members and instead assuming that those members never renewed.  Another error was failing to 

estimate a terminal value for renewing members.  In effect, Bally assumed that all members in 

their renewal periods would immediately cease being members.  The errors in Bally's  estimates 

had the effect ofunderstating the average membership life.  As a result, Bally's member life 

estimates improperly accelerated revenue recognition  and distorted the economic reality  of 

.Bally's  business. 

        29.   Dwyer was responsible  for overseeing Bally's  calculations  ofthe average member 

life over which Bally deferred its initiation fee revenue.  Dwyer knew that initiation fee revenue 

was the largest component   of Bally's  revenue and that Bally's  accounting for initiation fee 

revenue was a critical accounting policy that directly impacted Bally's  financial statements. The 

results produced by Bally's  demonstrably  flawed member life computation were inconsistent 

with economic reality and thus unreasonable.  Dwyer knew or waSreckless in not knowing that 

Bally's  calculations were flawed and caused it to understate the estimated average member life 

and thus improperly accelerate recognition  of initiation fee revenue. 

        30.   In 1997 communications  with Commission Staff regarding the implementation       of 

the deferral method, Dwyer represented that Bally would periodically update those calculations 

to ensure that Bally was using an appropriate deferral period.  Contrary to that commitment, in 

the subsequent six years, Dwyer and Bally failed to update the 1997 calculations. 

        31.   Bally's  auditor fonnally  requested Bally update its member life computations in 

1998, 2001 and 2002, but Dwyer and Bally never did so.     In response to the auditor's  2001 

request, Dwyer asserted that the 1997 calculations  were "still an appropriate approximation of 

the current historical average membership"  because the original calculation constituted a "35­

year historical average."  In fact, Dwyer knew or was reckless in not knowing that the 1997 

                                                9
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

calculations did not constitute a 35-year average, but reflected a flawed average from a much 

shorter pool ofmembership data. 

       32.   Knowing that Bally had not updated its member life estimate since 1997, as part 

ofits 2003 year-end audit efforts, the audit team pressed Bally for support for its member life 

estimate.  Bally never provided the support for the member life estimate. 

       33.    By late January 2004, Dwyer had become concerned about his lack      of 

communications  with the engagement partner, particularly  since two important meetings were 

                                                                                          th 
fast approaching:  a regularly scheduled Audit Committee meeting was set for January 28  and 

                                               th
an earnings call was scheduled for February  12  • 

       34.   A meeting was scheduled between the audit team and Bally financial managers 

for Sunday,  January 25,2004.  The audit team had prepared a five-item  agenda  for the meeting; 

four ofthe items related to audit adjustments totaling approximately $260 million. 

      35.     At the January 2004 meeting, E&Y notified Bally that it would have to take a 

charge relating to new accounting guidance -- EITF 00-21, Revenue Arrangements  With 

Multiple Deliverables  -- that Bally had failed to implement during the third quarter of2003. 

E&Y also identified three substantial audit adjustments that Bally would have to book.  E&Y 

made clear that the new accounting guidance required Bally to adopt a modified cash basis   of 

accounting to some  of its contracts.  As Bally and E&Y discussed the proposed change, Dwyer 

proposed adopting a modified cash basis  of accounting for all ofthe company's membership 

contracts, regardless ofwhether such contracts contained multiple deliverables.  Dwyer knew 

that the change to a modified cash basis ofaccounting for the rest ofBally's membership 

contracts would allow Bally to avoid or at least reduce the significance ofsome  ofthe charges 

E&Y had identified. 

                                               10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       36.     Bally's  proposed  change  in accounting  would enable Bally to improperly  avoid a 

 restatement.  Dwyer knew that the accuracy    ofthe member  life estimate would   be less important 

 under the new  accounting  method  and the deferred  acquisition  costs estimate  would no longer 

 exist. 

       37.     Bally's  Controller  prepared  a draft preferability  request which Dwyer received 

and reviewed  before it was sent to the engagement  and the concurring  partner  on February  11, 

2004.  The draft raised additional  warning  signals  about whether  Bally's  member  life estimation 

methodology  was reasonable and  whether    Bally's accounting  policy for initiation  fee revenue 

was in conformity  with GAAP.'   For  instance,  the draft request  states, "We have concluded  that 

our revenue recognition  policy for fmanced  membership  fees   ... does not appropriately  reflect 

the economic  earnings process  of membership  revenue  since it accelerates  the earnings  process 

ahead of membership  collections."  The draft also states that "[T]he earnings  pattern under the 

straight-line  approach  is always out ofsync with cash receipts.  After the average  22-month 

period of recognition  is complete,  the earnings  process  for those members  paying  over 36­

months (i.e. those who do not default)  is 14 months  ahead  ofcash collection.  The straight-line 

method is always ahead   of cash collections,  with approximately  30%  of the total net realizable 

value of a pool ofnew  member revenue  remaining     to be collected in membership  months 23 

through  36." 

       38.     Dwyer   knew  or was  reckless in not knowing  that these factual representations  in 

the draft preferability  request were warning  signals that Bally's accounting  for its initiation  fee 

revenue was not  in conformity  with GAAP. 

       39.     E&Y subsequently  issued a preferability  letter allowing Bally  to change from 

accrual accounting  to a modified  cash basis of accounting.  As a result ofthe change in 

accounting,  Bally recorded a cumulative  effect change  of $441 million in its 2003 financial 

                                                 11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

statements.  Dwyer  knew  or was reckless  in not knowing  that the size ofthe cumulative  effect 

adjustment resulting  from the change  in accounting  -- $441 million -- raised additional  doubts as 

to whether Bally's prior method  of accounting  for initiation  fee revenue was in conformity  with 

GAAP. 

       40.     In 2004, Bally acknowledged  that the manner in which it applied both the deferral 

method and the modified  cash method    of accounting  for initiation  fee revenue were  improper  and 

not in conformity with  GAAP. 

       41.     At least since 2001, Dwyer   knew  or was reckless  in not knowing  that Bally's 

accounting  for initiation  fee revenue was  not in conformity  with GAAP and caused  Bally's 

financial statements to be materially  misstated. 

                   Bally Fraudulently  Deferred Member Acquisition         Costs 

       42.     At the same time it adopted  a deferral  policy for recognition ofinitiation  fee 

revenue,  Bally began  to defer member  acquisition  costs and amortize such costs over the same 

period that it recognized  initiation  fee revenue.  Member  acquisition  costs were supposed  to be 

the costs that would not have been incurred  but for entering  into particular member  agreements. 

Under GAAP, costs that were direct and incremental  to the acquisition   of a contract  were 

permitted to be capitalized  and amortized  as an expense  over the same period that the deferred 

revenue from the contract  Was  recognized.  All other costs were required to be charged to 

expense as incurred. 

       43.     Bally, however,  arbitrarily  determined  what amount of costs to defer without any 

reasonable  empirical  basis.  Among other things,  Bally deferred  as "membership  acquisition 

costs" 33%  of its Management  Information  Systems "(MIS")  department  costs and 100%     of 

various bank and credit card charges through  2002  (when   it began to defer 39% of such charges). 

                                                 12
 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       44.     Dwyer was responsible  for establishing  Bally's  arbitrary  cost deferral 

determinations.  Dwyer failed to prepare  any analyses  to support the allocation of such costs, and 

knew  or was reckless in not knowing  that many items deferred  as membership  acquisition  costs 

did not qualify for deferral. For example,  "base salaries"  for "sales trainees"  were improperly 

deferred  and MIS costs that were deferred  included  such non-contract-acquisition  items as 

depreciation, repairs  and maintenance,  equipment  rental, supplies,  professional  fees and utilities. 

       45.     Dwyer   knew  or was reckless  in not knowing  that Bally's practice of deferring 

member  acquisition  costs that were not direct and incremental  to the acquisition ofmembership 

contracts  was not in conformity  with GAAP and therefore  misstated   Bally's financial  statements. 

                                Bally Fraudulently    Overstated  its
 
                              Gross Revenue  from    "Prepaid   Dues"
 

       46.     Bally also fraudulently  recognized  revenue  from "prepaid  dues."  Prepaid  dues 

revenue  was generated,  for example,  when a Bally health club member  elected to renew his or 

her membership  for an additional  period of time after completing  the initial membership  contract 

term.  A renewing  member could elect   to prepay  his or her renewal  dues.  These prepayments 

were referred  to as prepaid  dues. 

       47.     GAAP required  Bally to recognize  prepaid  dues revenue  as monthly health club 

services  were provided.  When dues were prepaid,  the prepaid portion  was to  be  deferred  and 

recognized  as it was earned.  From  1997 through  2003, however,  Bally improperly  accelerated 

revenue  from prepaid dues  by recognizing  as revenue  each year's prepaid  dues at the time of 

prepayment,  instead of recognizing  it over the period  for which that member  had prepaid. 

       48.     Beginning   in at least 2000, Dwyer knew   that Bally was improperly  accelerating 

revenue  from prepaid  dues, but he failed to assess the scope ofthe problem,  take corrective 

action or disclose it  to Bally's auditors. 

                                                 13
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

       49.     Eventually, Bally publicly  acknowledged  "errors" regarding prepaid dues for prior 

periods.  In its 2003 Form  10-K, Bally restated its prepaid dues revenue for prior periods going 

back to 1997 because, as the Company reported,  its previous methodology resulted in "errors in 

calculating prepaid dues and accelerated  dues recognition  for certain prepaying members." 

       50.     Dwyer knew,   or was reckless in not knowing, that Bally was accounting for 

prepaid dues revenue in a manner that was not in conformity with GAAP and caused Bally's 

financial statements to be materially  misstated. 

                           Bally's  False and  Misleading  Disclosures 

        51.   In both 2002 and 2003, Bally made false and misleading disclosures in its SEC 

filings about the reasons for certain recorded adjustments  and certain accounting changes. 

Dwyer was responsible for each   of these filings and knew  or was reckless in not knowing that 

Bally made these false and misleading  disclosures. 

                            Bally's  False and Misleading  Disclosure
 
                 Relating  to a $55 Million  Special Charge   in Fiscal Year 2002
 

       52.     From 1997 through 2002, Bally consistently  used a   41 %  reserve rate in 

establishing  its allowance for doubtful accounts ("ADA"),  despite changes in the economy and   in 

market conditions.  The result of using the unvarying  41 % rate was that Bally's  ADA was at the 

low end of the range that E&  Y had deemed to   be reasonable.  During the third quarter of2002, 

E&Y determined that   Bally's collections  had deteriorated  substantially and advised Dwyer that 

Bally needed to increase its ADA   in order to cover the shortfall resulting from the deteriorating 

collections.  Dwyer insisted that no change be made to the ADA until the fourth quarter to allow 

Bally time to obtain waivers of debt covenants provisions  from its lenders. 

       53.     Dwyer also did not want to disclose that the reason for taking a charge was due to 

deteriorating  collections.  In a letter to Bally's  lenders, Dwyer knew or was reckless in not 

                                                 14
 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

knowing  of the falsity ofhis representation  that ''the  one time charge does not reflect any 

deterioration  in the Company's  expected cash flows." 

       54.     During the fourth quarter  of 2002, Dwyer agreed to increase Bally's  ADA     by $55 

million, and Bally ultimately  presented  it as a "special  charge" in its year-end financial 

statements. 

       55.     In its 2002 Form  lO-K, Bally made false and misleading disclosures  regarding  the 

reasons for the charge: the only reason for the charge cited in the Form lO-K was that Bally's 

estimation  was based on  an accelerated  monetization  scenario which would result in collecting 

less than book value.  No mention was made     ofthe deterioration of the collectability ofBally's 

accounts receivable  portfolio,  which had been identified  by the auditor as requiring  Bally to take 

a charge. 

       56.    . Dwyer knew,   or was reckless in not knowing,  that Bally's  disclosure  relating to 

the $55 million charge was materially  false and misleading.  The $55 million special charge 

virtually eliminated  Bally's  2002 earnings. 

                            Bally's  False and Misleading  Disclosures
 
                       Relating  to its Failure  To Implement   EITF   00-21
 

       57.     During the third quarter  of2003,  Bally was required to implement  EITF 00-21, 

Revenue Arrangements  with Multiple Deliverables  ("EITF 00-21"), which provides  guidance 

relating to the recognition ofrevenue for contracts  containing multiple deliverables  such as gym 

memberships  bundled with personal training services and nutritional supplements.  Bally failed 

to implement  EITF 00-21 as required. 

       58.     Bally's failure to implement EITF 00-21    in the third quarter of2003 was a 

material accounting  error. 

                                                 15
 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

       59.     In connection with its 2003 earnings press release issued on March 11,2004, 

Bally prepared a set of unaudited financial statements, and, in the notes to the financial 

statements, Bally misrepresented that it had implemented EITF 00-21 "as required."  Bally made 

a similar misrepresentation  in its 2003 Form 10-K.  Dwyer knew about the error prior to the 

filing ofthe 2003 Form lO-K. 

       60.     Dwyer knew, or was reckless in not knowing, that    Bally's disclosures relating to 

its implementation ofEITF   00-21 were false and misleading. 

                            Bally's  False and Misleading  Disclosure
 
             Relating  to a $48 Million Recorded  Adjustment  in Fiscal    Year  2003
 

       61.     During 2003, Bally's  collectability ofits accounts receivable portfolio continued 

to deteriorate and its auditor insisted that Bally book an additional $48 million adjustment.  In 

connection with changes in accounting principles during fiscal year 2003, Bally recorded a 

cumulative effect adjustment.  Bally used the cumulative effect adjustment to hide the $48 

million audit adjustment by booking it against the deferred revenues rather than as a reduction to 

revenues.  Bally did not disclose that its accounts receivable portfolio was continuing to 

deteriorate or the resulting material deterioration in its 2003 financial statements. 

       62.     Dwyer knew or was reckless in not knowing that Bally's  receivable portfolio  had 

continued to deteriorate resulting in the $48 million charge and that Bally had failed to disclose 

this deterioration. 

                    Internal Control  Failures  And  Falsification  ofRecords 

       63.     At least for the periods 2001 through 2003, Bally had a system   of internal controls 

that was not sufficient to detect violations ofGAAP.   Dwyer, as Bally's  CFO, had direct 

responsibility for overseeing Bally's  internal controls.  Based on the foregoing conduct, Dwyer 

knowingly circumvented those internal controls. 

                                                16
 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

       64.     Dwyer, as Bally's  CFO, also had direct responsibility  for overseeing Bally's 

books and records.  Based on the foregoing conduct, Dwyer knowingly falsified, and caused to 

be falsified, Bally's  required books and records. 

                                 FIRST   CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF
 

                                              Fraud
 
             Violations  of Section  17(a) ofthe Securities Act  [15 U.S.c. §77q(a»),
 
                  Section  10(b) of the Exchange   Act [15 U.S.C. §78j(b»),  and
 
                       Exchange   Act  Rule  10b-5  [17 C.F.R.  §240.10b-5)
 

       65.     Paragraphs  1 through 64 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference. 

       66.     By  reason of the foregoing, defendant directly or indirectly, knowingly or 

recklessly, by use ofthe means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce or  of the mails, in 

connection with the offer, sale, or purchase ofsecurities:  (a) employed devices, schemes or 

artifices to defraud; (b) made untrue statements ofmaterial fact or omitted to state a material fact 

necessary to make the statements made, in the light  of the circumstances under which they were 

made, not misleading;  (c) obtained money or property by means    of any untrue statement of a 

material fact or any omission of a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, 

in light ofthe circumstances under  which they were made, not misleading; or (d) engaged in 

transactions, acts, practices, or courses of business which operated as a fraud or deceit upon other 

persons. 

       67.     By reason  of the foregoing, Dwyer violated Section 17(a)  of the Securities Act, 

Section lO(b) of the Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rule lOb-5. 

                                                17
 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

                               SECOND     CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

                            Aiding  and Abetting  Bally's  Reporting
 
             Violations of Section  13(a) ofthe Exchange  Act [15   U.S.c. §78m(a)]
 
                  and Exchange  Act Rules 12b-20,    13a-l, 13a-ll  and  13a-13
 
                [17 C.F.R.  §§240.12b-20,  240.13a-l, 240.13a-ll   & 240.13a-13]
 

       Paragraphs  I through 67 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference. 

       68.     The Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder require every issuer    of a 

registered security  to file reports with the Commission that accurately reflect the issuer's 

financial performance and provide other true and accurate information to the public. In addition 

to the materially inaccurate Forms lO-K identified above, during the relevant period, Bally also 

filed materially inaccurate Forms IO-Q and 8-K.  By  reason of the foregoing, Bally violated 

Section 13(a) ofthe Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-l,    13a-ll  and 13a-13 thereunder. 

       69.     Dwyer knew that Bally's  filings contained materially inaccurate information,  but 

he approved and/or signed the filirigs.  By reason ofthe foregoing, Dwyer aided and abetted 

Bally's  violations of Section 13(a) ofthe Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-l,  13a-11 and 

13a-13 thereunder. 

                                TIDRD    CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

             Aiding and  Abetting  Bally's  Reco.rd Keeping  and  Internal Controls 
           Violations  of Sections 13(b)(2)(A) and  13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange  Act 
                         [15 U.S.C. §§78m(b)(2)(A)   and  78m(b)(2)(B)] 

       Paragraphs  1 through 69  are re-alleged and incorporated by reference~ 

       70.     The Exchange Act and rules promulgated thereunder require each issuer    of 

registered securities:  (a) to make and keep books, records and accounts which, in reasonable 

detail, accurately and fairly reflect the business ofthe issuer; and (b) to devise and maintain a 

system of internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among other things, 

transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity 

                                               18
 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

with GAAP or any other criteria.  By reason ofthe foregoing, Bally violated Sections 

13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) ofthe Exchange Act. 

       71.    By reason  ofthe foregoing, Dwyer aided and abetted Bally violations ofSections 

13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) ofthe Exchange Act. 

                              FOURTH     CLAIM    FOR  RELIEF 

              Knowingly  Circumventing     or Failing  To Implement  Internal Controls 
                       or Knowingly  Falsifying  Required  Books  or Records 
             Violations of Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange  Act [15 U.S.c. §78m(b)(5)] 

       Paragraphs 1 through 71 are re-al1eged and incorporated by reference. 

       72.    The Exchange Act prohibits a person from knowingly circumventing or 

knowingly failing to implement a system of internal accounting controls or knowingly falsifying 

any book, record or account  required to be kept pursuant to Section 13(b)(2). 

       73.	   By reason  ofthe foregoing, Dwyer violated Section 13(b)(5) ofthe Securities Act. 

                               FIFTH   CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

                             Falsification of Accounting  Records 
        Violations  of Rule 13b2-1 under  the Exchange  Act [17  C.F .R. §240.13b2-1] 

       Paragraphs 1 through 73 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference. 

       74.    Rule 13b2-1 promulgated under the Exchange Act prohibits a person from, 

directly or indirectly, falsifying or causing to be falsified, any book, record or account described 

in Section 13(b)(2)(A) ofthe Exchange Act. 

       75.    By reason  ofthe foregoing, Dwyer violated Rule 13b2-1 under the Exchange Act. 

                                              19
 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

                                   PRAYER     FOR   RELIEF 

       WHEREFORE,  the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final 

judgment: 

       (a)	    permanently enjoining Dwyer from violating Section 17(a)   of the Securities Act, 

               Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, and Rule 10b-5 thereunder, and 

               from aiding and abetting violations of Section 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A) and 13(b)(2)(B) 

               of the Exchange Act, and Exchange Act Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, 13a-13 and 

               13b2-1 thereunder; 

       (b)	    bars Defendant, pursuant to Section 21 (d)(2)of the Exchange Act and  lor Section 

               20(3) of the Securities Act, from serving as an officer or director ofany issuer that 

               has a class ofsecurities registered under Section 12 ofthe Exchange Act or that is 

               required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) ofthe Exchange Act; 

       (c)	    ordering Dwyer to disgorge ill-gotten gains in the amount of$125,000; 

       (d)	    ordering Dwyer to pay a $125,000 penalty pursuant to Section 20(d)  of the 

               Securities Act and/or Section 21(d) ofthe Exchange Act; and 

                                               20
 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

       (e)    granting such other relief as this Court may deem just and appropriate. 

Dated:  December   IS-: 2009 

Washington,  D.C. 

                                   By:                  2 
                                           J   an A. Thomas (Bar No. 452886) 
                                           Robert E. Leidenheimer,  Jr. (Bar No. 420959) 
                                           U.S. Securities & Exchange Commission 
                                           100 F. Street, N.E. 
                                           Washington, D.C. 20549 
                                           Tel.:  202-551-4475  (Thomas) 
                                           Fax:  202-772-9245  (Thomas) 
                                           Email:  ThomasJA@sec.gov 
Of Counsel: 

Fredric D. Firestone 
Kenneth R. Lench 
David Kagan-Kans 
Melissa E. Lamb 
Richard E. Johnston 

                                             21
 
