---------------------Page 1---------------------

                     IN THE  UNITED  STATES DISTRICT COURT  
                         FOR THE  DISTRICT OF COLORADO 
                                                              @u     p~$      \ c E  PBcoUR~ 
v    Action No    07   -   cv      -   0   1   5   4   9   '                gflES D  \  O~  ~  ~
                                                                      UN\TE\~~~,, COLO"~ 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE       COMMISSION, 
                          Plaintiff, 

RICHARD   E. FRESIA, 

                          Defendant. 

                                    COMPLAINT 

Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission"), for its complaint, alleges: 

                                 I.     SUMMARY 
       1.  During the second and third quarters of 2002, Defendant Richard E. Fresia, the 

former chief financial officer ("CFO') of Expanets, Inc. ("Expanets"), a large 

telecommunications subsidiary of Northwestern Corporation ("NorthWestern"), participated in a 

scheme to hide from the investing public Expanets' ongoing operational problems and poor 

financial performance. 

       2.  First, Fresia failed to properly account for Expanets' uncollectible receivables and 

adjustments to customer bills that resulted from computer system problems, causing 

overstatements of Northwestern's reported income of 90% and 109% in the second and third 

quarters of 2002, respectively. Alternatively, Fresia caused Northwestern's failure to properly 

disclose the possibility of losses relating to Expanets'uncollectible receivables and adjustments 

to customer bills. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       3.   Second, Fresia and Northwestern  senior executives misled investors about the 

nature of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income. While Northwestern publicly claimed 

that Expanets had achieved profitability and met earnings targets through its operations and cost 

savings, Fresia and Northwestern  senior executives concealed from the public that in fact, 

Expanets' reported income during 2002 was derived, in large part, from non-recurring and 

undisclosed reserve reductions, and from its receipt of unusual non-compete payments. 

       4.   Fresia's misconduct helped facilitate Northwestern's  completion of more than $800 

million in securities offerings in September and October 2002, including raising approximately 

$87.5 million in an equity offering that provided the company with badly needed operating 

capital to temporarily improve its liquidity position. 

       5.   However, just two months later, in December 2002, Northwestern disclosed that 

Expanets would take more than $50 million of charges for uncollectible accounts receivable and 

adjustments to customer bills. 

       6.   In April 2003, Northwestern restated its Forms 10-Q for the first three quarters of 

2002 and erased Expanets' previously reported income for those periods.  The company also 

disclosed significant ongoing problems with the EXPERT system, and the impact of unusual 

non-compete payments on Expanets' 2002 financial results. 

       7.   Also in April 2003, Northwestern  filed its 2002 Form 10-K, in which it wrote off 

substantially all of its past investment of hundreds of millions of dollars in Expanets. In that 

filing, Northwestern announced that, despite past assurances, Expanets would not generate 

future cash flow in sufficient amounts to help service Northwestern's  elevated debt. 

       8.   Over the next five months, NorthWestern's liquidity situation continued to 

deteriorate until the company declared bankruptcy in September 2003. 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                           11.     JURISDICTION  AND VENUE 

       9.   The Commission brings this action pursuant to the authority conferred upon it by 

Section 20(b) of the Securities Act of 1933 ("Securities Act") [15 U.S.C. 5 77t(b)] and Sections 

2l(d)  and (e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") [15 U.S.C. $$78u(d) 

and (e)] for an order permanently restraining and enjoining Defendant and granting other 

equitable relief. 

       10.  This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Section 22(a) of the 

Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 5 77v(a)] and Sections 21(e) and 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $5 

78u(e) and 78aal. 

       11.  Venue lies in this Court pursuant to Section 22(a) of the Securities Act and Section 

27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  $5 77v(a) and 78aal. 

       12.  In connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business 

described in this Complaint, Fresia directly or indirectly, made use of the means or 

instrumentalities of interstate commerce, of the mails, of the facilities of a national securities 

exchange, and/or of the means and instruments of transportation or communication in interstate 

commerce. 

       13.  Certain of the transactions, acts, practices and courses of business constituting the 

violations of law alleged herein occurred within this judicial district. Moreover, Fresia resides in 

this judicial district. 

                                    111.    DEFENDANT 

       14.  Richard  E. Fresia, age 52, is a resident of Evergreen, Colorado. Fresia served as 

Expanets' CFO from April 2002 through May 2003.  Fresia was licensed as a certified public 

accountant in Colorado in 1985, but his license is now inactive.  Fresia is currently an officer of a 

public company. 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

                               IV.    RELATED PARTIES  

       15.    Northwestern,   a Delaware corporation with its principal executive offices in 

Sioux Falls, South Dakota, operates a regulated utility business in South Dakota, Nebraska and 

Montana.  During the period described herein, Northwestern  controlled and consolidated the 

financial results of Expanets. Northwestern's  common stock was registered with the 

Commission under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and was required to file periodic reports 

with the SEC on Forms 10-K and 10-Q. Northwestern  stock traded on the New York Stock 

Exchange until it was delisted shortly before Northwestern  declared bankruptcy in September 

2003.  In November 2004, Northwestern  emerged from bankruptcy.  Its common stock is now 

registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and trades on the 

NASDAQ Global Select Market. 

       16. Expanets,  a Delaware corporation formerly headquartered in Englewood, Colorado, 

provided networked telecommunications equipment and services to medium-sized businesses 

nationwide.  Expanets was comprised of approximately 26 small telecommunications equipment 

resellers and a former sales division of Lucent Technologies. Northwestern  wrote off 

substantially all of its investment in Expanets in its 2002 Form 10-K and announced its intent to 

sell Expanets in April 2003.  In the second quarter of 2003, Expanets' operations were 

discontinued, and in May 2004, Expanets filed for bankruptcy.  Proceeds from the sale of 

Expanets' assets were distributed in bankruptcy. 

        V.  SUMMARY OF VIOLATIONS AND MATERIALLY FALSE STATEMENTS 

       17.  Fresia violated Section 17(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 5 77q(a)] and Sections 

10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $5 78j(b) and 78m(b)(5)] and Rules lob-5 

and 13b2-1 thereunder [17 C.F.R. $9 240.10b-5 and 240.13b2-11, and aided and abetted 

Northwestern's  violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

[15 U.S.C. $5 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A) and 78m(b)(2)(B)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 

thereunder [17 C.F.R. $5 240.12b-20,240.13a-11  and 240.13a-131, and unless restrained and 

enjoined will violate or aid and abet violations of such provisions. 

       18.  Fresia's violations as alleged below occurred in connection with the following 

Commission filings: Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30,2002,  filed on 

August 14,2002 ("NorthWestern7s Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2002"), and 

Northwestern's  Amended Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30,2002, filed on September 

20,2002;  Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30,2002,  filed on 

November 14,2002 ("NorthWestern7s Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002"); 

Northwestern's  Forms 8-K with attached press releases filed on August 8,2002,  September 20, 

2002, and November 7,2002; Northwestern's  Form S-4lAmendment #2 filed August 16,2002; 

Form     S-4lAmendment #3 filed September 9,2002;  and Northwestern's  equity offering 

prospectus supplements filed with the Commission on September 30,2002 and October 3,2002. 

       19.  Fresia caused the misstatement of Northwestern's  financial statements filed with its 

Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2002.  Fresia also reviewed and assisted in the 

preparation of Northwestern's  false and misleading disclosures pertaining to Expanets in the 

company's Forms 10-Q for second and third quarters of 2002. 

       20.  Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  misstated financial 

results for the second and third quarters were also disseminated to the public in Northwestern's 

corresponding press releases attached to Northwestern's  Forms 8-K filed on August 8,2002, 

September 20,2002,  and November 7,2002. 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

       21.  Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  misstated financial 

results and false and misleading disclosures pertaining to Expanets were repeated in 

Northwestern's  amended second quarter Form 10-Q filed on September 20,2002. 

       22.  Fresia also knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  false financial 

statements and false and misleading disclosures pertaining to Expanets in the company's Form 

10-Q for the second quarter of 2002 was incorporated by reference into Northwestern's 

amended Forms S-4 filed with the Commission on August 16,2002 and September 9,2002,  as 

well as the equity offering prospectus supplements that Northwestern  filed with the Commission 

on September 30,2002  and October 3,2002. 

                                       VI.    FACTS 

A.     Background   --Northwestern's  Expansion And Expanets' Poor Performance Prior 
       to 2002 

       23.  For more than seventy years, Northwestern  operated a public utility business, 

providing electricity and natural gas to customers in South Dakota and Nebraska. 

       24.  In approximately 1998, Northwestern  formed a non-utility entity, Expanets, to 

diversify into the potentially high-growth sector of telecommunications. Northwestern intended 

for Expanets to acquire telecommunications companies and then make the combined businesses 

more profitable. 

       25.  Northwestern  expected that following an initial growth phase, Expanets would 

provide substantial additional earnings and cash flow to Northwestern  through dividends on 

Northwestern's  preferred stock holdings in Expanets.  However, despite Northwestern's 

investment of hundreds of millions of dollars in Expanets, Expanets incurred large losses in most 

years and posted only small profits in other years.  By December 3 1,2001, Northwestern had 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

invested $3 14.1 million in Expanets.  Notwithstanding this sizeable investment, Expanets had 

not returned significant cash to Northwestern. 

       26.  Despite the poor performance of Expanets, in February 2002, Northwestern 

quadrupled its customer base for utility operations by acquiring Montana Power Company 

("Montana Power") for  approximately $1.1 billion.  Northwestern  financed a substantial part of 

this acquisition with debt through the company's issuance of $720 million in unregistered notes. 

B.     Fresia Knew That Northwestern's  Planned Equity Offerine Placed Heightened 
       Pressure on Expanets to Meet Financial Performance Targets During 2002 

       27.  Northwestern's  markedly increased debt used to acquire Montana Power threatened 

the company's historically stable liquidity and top-tier credit ratings.  Therefore, in early 

February 2002, Northwestern  publicly announced its intention to conduct an equity offering, and 

then use the proceeds to pay down a portion of its elevated debt. Northwestern  senior 

executives also repeatedly confirmed the company's public guidance of between $2.30 and $2.55 

earnings per share for 2002. 

       28.  Throughout his employment with Expanets, Fresia knew that the historical poor 

performance of Expanets and Northwestern's  expansion of its utility operations together placed 

enormous pressure on Expanets' 2002 financial performance.  Throughout his employment with 

Expanets, Fresia also knew that Northwestern's  equity offering planned for later in 2002 was 

critical to Northwestern's  consolidated liquidity situation. 

       29.  Throughout his employment with Expanets, Fresia knew that Northwestern's  ability 

to meet its public earnings per share guidance for 2002 was dependent in part upon achieving 

markedly increased profitability at Expanets. Notwithstanding Expanets' 2001 earnings before 

interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") loss of approximately $48 million, 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

Northwestern publicly projected that Expanets' 2002 EBITDA would be between $80 and $87 

million. 

C.     Fresia's Role in the Preparation of Expanets' Financial Statements And 
       Northwestern's Public Disclosures 

       30.  Fresia began his employment as CFO of Expanets on or about April 15,2002. 

Throughout his tenure as CFO of Expanets, Fresia was responsible for the preparation of 

Expanets' financial statements and for overseeing Expanets' accounting and finance 

organization. 

       3 1.  Although Expanets did not file reports with the Commission, Expanets maintained 

its own books and records, and prepared its own separate financial statements. Throughout his 

employment with Expanets, Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Expanets' financial 

results were reported as a segment and consolidated into Northwestern's  financial statements 

which were filed with the Commission and otherwise disseminated to the public. 

       32.  Fresia communicated frequently with Northwestern  senior management and other 

accounting and finance personnel regarding, among other things, Expanets' operations and 

financial results.  For example, Fresia reviewed and approved Expanets' detailed monthly 

operations reports to Northwestern and attended corresponding monthly operations review 

meetings with Northwestern senior management. 

       33.  Fresia actively participated in the preparation of Northwestern's  Forms 10-Q for the 

second and third quarters of 2002.  Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that 

Northwestern's  financial statements in those filings, as well as Northwestern's  disclosures 

pertaining to Expanets, would be disseminated to the public. 

       34.  Following passage of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act ("SOX)  and before Northwestern's 

filing of its Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2002, Northwestern instituted internal SOX 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

disclosure procedures designed to support the certification of Northwestern's  Commission 

filings by Northwestern's  CEO and CFO pursuant to Section 906 of SOX and Commission 

Order 4-460. 

       35.  Northwestern's  SOX disclosure process primarily consisted of due diligence 

sessions in which Fresia, along with various other individuals affiliated with Northwestern and 

its subsidiaries, drafted, reviewed, and internally confirmed, among other things, the accuracy of 

the financial statements and disclosures included within Northwestern's  Forms 10-Q for the 

second and third quarters.  By virtue of his participation in Northwestern's  SOX process alone, 

Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that false or misleading financial statements or 

disclosures in the company's Forms 10-Q would be filed with the Commission and otherwise 

disseminated to the public. 

       36.  Fresia substantially participated in the preparation of Northwestern's  2002 second 

quarter Form 10-Q because he supervised the preparation of Expanets' financial statements, 

reviewed the Form 10-Q, participated in at least one due diligence session with other individuals, 

and confirmed that Expanets' financial statements were consistent with generally accepted 

accounting principles ("GAAP")  and that Northwestern's  Form 10-Q did not contain any 

material misstatements or omissions, and was accurate and complete. 

       37.  Prior to the filing of Northwestern's  2002 third quarter Form 10-Q, the company 

enhanced its SOX disclosure procedures by creating more formalized committees to draft, 

review and internally attest to, among other things, that the disclosures of that filing were 

accurate and complete.  Specifically, Northwestern  formed a disclosure committee at the parent 

level and also various disclosure subcommittees at the subsidiary levels.  Fresia was a member of 

Expanets' disclosure subcommittee. 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

       38.  Fresia substantially participated in the preparation of NorthWestern7s 2002 third 

quarter Form 10-Q because he supervised the preparation of Expanets' financial statements and, 

as a member of Expanets' disclosure subcommittee, he reviewed Northwestern's  Form 10-Q, 

participated in due diligence sessions with other individuals, confirmed that Expanets' financial 

statements were consistent with GAAP  and that Northwestern's  Form 10-Q did not contain any 

material misstatements or omissions, and signed an internal certification attesting that, among 

other things, the disclosures of that filing relating to Expanets were accurate and complete. 

       39.  Because of his role during Northwestern's  internal SOX disclosure procedures for 

the second and third quarters of 2002, Fresia was obligated to ensure the accuracy and 

completeness of the financial statements and disclosures within those filings as they related to 

Expanets.  Furthermore, as CFO of Expanets during the second and third quarters of 2002, Fresia 

was similarly obligated to ensure that Expanets' financial statements conformed with GAAP 

D.     Throughout His Employment With Expanets, Fresia Knew Of The Ongoing, 
       Problems With Expanets' Computer System 

       40.  During 2000 and 2001, Expanets developed a new computer system called 

"EXPERT" to serve as a platform for virtually all of its operations, including sales, inventory, 

project management, billing, collections and financial statement preparation. Because of 

EXPERT'S planned scope and impact across operations, the functionality of the system was 

critical to Expanets' operations and financial results. 

       4 1.  Following the implementation of EXPERT in November 200 1, the system was 

unable to perform many of the basic tasks for which it had been designed. In particular, the 

EXPERT system experienced severe problems in generating timely and accurate customer bills 

and tracking customer payments. 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

       42.  For example, for approximately one month following implementation, EXPERT 

could not generate any customer bills.  Even after EXPERT could generate customer bills, until 

approximately May 2002, the bills did not contain beginning or ending balances notifying 

customers of payment history or amounts past due. 

       43.  From its implementation until the third quarter of 2002, EXPERT also could not 

perform basic accounting functions.  For example, EXPERT could not accurately track the aging 

of accounts receivable or accurately apply customer payments to particular invoices. 

       44.  Almost immediately after he began his employment with Expanets, through various 

communications, including emails, written reports, analyses, and/or verbal discussions, Fresia 

became aware of the ongoing problems with the EXPERT system. 

       45.  Throughout the remainder of 2002, Fresia was constantly kept apprised of ongoing 

functionality problems with the EXPERT system. Among other things, EXPERT functionality 

problems were a standing agenda item for every monthly operations review meeting between 

Expanets and Northwestern throughout 2002. 

       46.  Fresia also received more detailed periodic reports regarding EXPERT functionality 

problems and proposed repairs.  For example, in June 2002, Fresia received an extensive briefing 

from Expanets' chief information officer ("CIO") as to ongoing EXPERT problems, particularly 

relating to billing and collections. Among other things, Expanets' CIO explained that EXPERT 

problems and planned fixes would persist at least through the end of 2002. 

       47.  Emails and other internal documents authored by Fresia demonstrate that he was 

well aware of EXPERT functionality problems and their impact on operations, particularly 

Expanets' customer billing and collections. For example, in a July 3,2002  email to 

Northwestern personnel, Fresia stated "I know the cash flow pressures that you guys are facing 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

and I want this fix as badly as anyone.  Collecting from these pre-fix bills is a disaster.  This 

billing system (and other modules as well) our [sic] VERY hosed." 

       48.  Similarly, in an August 27, 2002 email, Fresia wrote "It's an unfortunate situation, 

but the EXPERT system is an absolute [expletive] disaster." 

       49.  As alleged below, the inability of the EXPERT system to generate accurate or timely 

customer bills caused a spike in both Expanets' uncollectible receivables and adjustments to 

customer bills. 

E.     Fresia Was Responsible For Expanets' Material Understatement Of Its Bad Debt 
       Reserve and Northwestern's  Related False and Misleading Disclosures 

       50.  In anticipation that some customer accounts might prove uncollectible, Expanets 

maintained a "bad debt" reserve, which had the effect of reducing Expanets' operating income. 

       5 1.  Under GAAP, if Expanets' additional losses from uncollectible accounts receivable 

were probable and could be reasonably estimated, Expanets should have increased its bad debt 

reserve even if the particular receivables that were uncollectible were not identifiable. 

Furthermore, under GAAP, Northwestern was required to disclose contingent losses relating to 

Expanets' uncollectible receivables, even if the amount of the probable losses was not reasonably 

estimable, as long as the loss was considered at least reasonably possible. 

       52.  With respect to the second and third quarters of 2002, Fresia failed to ensure that the 

published financial statements of Northwestern  conformed with GAAP applicable to Expanets' 

uncollectible receivables. 

       53.  Prior to the filing of Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 2002, 

Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that millions of dollars of Expanets receivables pre- 

dated the implementation of the EXPERT system in November 200 1, and therefore likely were 

uncollectible because they had aged more than 180 days. 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

       54.  Fresia knew and acknowledged that Expanets had millions of dollars of 

uncollectible receivables pre-dating EXPERT implementation through various communications, 

including emails, written reports, analyses and/or verbal discussions. 

       55.  For example, on May 30,2002, Fresia drafted a memorandum in which he stated 

that 47% of Expanets' receivables were more than 90 days old.  Similarly, in an August 2002 

email, Fresia again admitted to Expanets personnel that Expanets had nearly a quarter of a billion 

dollars within its receivables account, some of which dated back to Thanksgiving of 2001. 

       56.  With respect to the second quarter of 2002, Fresia also knew or was reckless in not 

knowing that millions of dollars of Expanets receivables generated after the implementation of 

the EXPERT system likely were uncollectible because of EXPERT'S delayed and inaccurate 

customer billing, and other fbnctionality problems. 

       57.  Fresia was repeatedly informed that Expanets was unable to collect millions of 

dollars of receivables generated after EXPERT implementation through various communications, 

including emails, written reports, analyses and/or verbal discussions. 

       58.  For example, in a June 17,2002 email to other Expanets personnel, Fresia provided 

a progress report on Expanets' collections for June in which he acknowledged that "to say that 

month to date results are not good would be an understatement." 

       59.  Similarly, in an August 9, 2002 email entitled "Collections" sent to Fresia just days 

before Northwestern filed its Form 10-Q for the second quarter, an Expanets employee within 

the company's collections group wrote: 

       Based on my learning's [sic] over the past two months, the greater majority of our 
       collections problems and poor receivable performance is directly related to the 
       Expert system and our lack of knowledge company wide [sic] on how we should 
       be using it.  Notice Expanets receivables prior to November of last year were in 
       line with most providers [sic] aging within our space. Now, our receivable is 
       completely out of control. We have dedicated over 400 people from care & 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

       collections over a 3 month period to address the problem and we are seeing little 
       upturn in cash. 
                                           * * * * * 
       We are all aware we currently have a significant issue with the Maintenance 
       billing, however our Expert problems go much deeper from a receivable  & cash 
       collection perspective. We currently do not have the appropriate tools within 
       Expert & Precise to then manage the collections process & customer related 
       issues through to resolution. The overall expert system is currently lacking 
       quality reports, data integrity, workflow tools, system performance, end user 
       interface, system stability, & training of these systems to appropriately service our 
       customer base.  We are hamstrung in our ability to use the system to help up [sic] 
       perform our jobs effectively. 

       60.  Based upon his receipt of information regarding the status of Expanets' receivables 

that both pre-dated and post-dated the implementation of EXPERT, Fresia knew or was reckless 

in not knowing that Expanets' bad debt reserve policy was inadequate and that Expanets should 

have increased its bad debt reserve prior to Northwestern's  filing of its 2002 Form 10-Q for the 

second quarter. 

       61.  For example, prior to the implementation of EXPERT, Expanets' bad debt reserve 

policy was to reserve 25% of receivables that were more than 90 days old.  However, because 

EXPERT could not generate an accurate aging report through at least the first two quarters of. 

2002, Expanets implemented an interim policy during those periods which required Expanets to 

reserve 0.8% of current monthly sales. This percentage was based on the historical bad debt rate 

in existence prior to implementation of EXPERT. 

       62.  Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Expanets' interim policy was not 

appropriate for calculating Expanets' bad debt reserve for at least two reasons. 

       63.  First, use of the 0.8% rate assumed that Expanets was experiencing the same level of 

collections on its 2002 sales as it had experienced during 2001. However, through various 

communications, including emails, written reports, analyses, andlor verbal discussions, Fresia 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

knew or was reckless in not knowing that information available to Expanets contradicted this 

assumption. 

       64.  For example, a key performance indicator of Expanets' ability to collect on its 

accounts receivable was the "days sales outstanding" metric ("DSO").  DSO is the measure of 

the average number of days that a company takes to collect revenue after a sale has been made. 

Expanets tracked this metric and included it within its monthly operations reports that were 

shared with Northwestern during Fresia's employment with Expanets as its CFO. As compared 

with 2001 metrics, Expanets' 2002 DSO had essentially doubled during the first six months of 

2002, indicating that it was taking Expanets twice as long to collect on its receivables as it had 

taken the previous year. 

       65.  Second, the interim bad debt reserve policy applied to future bad debt associated 

only with current monthly sales, and it did not apply to the continued deterioration of the aging 

of prior months' receivables, including those receivables that pre-dated Expanets' 

implementation of EXPERT. Accordingly, Fresia knew or should have known that Expanets' 

interim reserve policy was inadequate for this alternative reason. 

       66.  In addition to the inadequacy of Expanets' interim policy during at least the first six 

months of 2002, Fresia knew or should have known that Expanets' bad debt reserve was 

materially understated by the filing of Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the second quarter based 

on the aging information that was available to Expanets. 

       67.  For example, an Expanets' aging report for the month ended June 2002 showed that 

Expanets had over $80 million in receivables that were more than 90 days old.  However, 

Expanets' bad debt reserve as of the month ended June 2002 was only approximately  $6.4 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

million, far short of the reserve that would be required if Expanets had reserved 25% of the $80 

million under the old policy. 

       68.  Accordingly, based on Expanets' prior bad debt policy of reserving 25% of such 

outstanding receivables, Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Expanets' current 

reserve levels were materially understated. 

       69.  Based upon his receipt of accounts receivable aging information and his failure to 

properly adjust Expanets' bad debt reserve for badly aged receivables, Fresia knew or was 

reckless in not knowing that the failure to increase Expanets' bad debt reserve in the second 

quarter of 2002 would and did cause a material misstatement of Expanets' and Northwestern's 

reported income for that period. 

       70.  Fresia reviewed and affirmed Northwestern's  disclosures pertaining to Expanets 

during Northwestern's  SOX disclosure process for the second quarter of 2002. Accordingly, in 

the alternative, based on his role in reviewing and approving that Commission filing, Fresia 

knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the second quarter of 

2002 was false and misleading in that it failed to disclose the reasonable possibility of any 

contingent losses relating to Expanets' uncollectible receivables. 

       71.  Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  amended second 

quarter Form 10-Q filed on September 20,2002, Northwestern's  Form S-4lAmendment #2 filed 

August 16,2002; Form S-4lAmendment #3 filed September 9,2002;  and Northwestern's  equity 

offering prospectus supplements filed with the Commission on September 30,2002 and October 

3,2002 were false and misleading in that they included the materially misstated financial 

statements of Expanets regarding its understated bad debt reserve or, in the alternative, failed to 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

disclose the reasonable possibility of any contingent losses relating to Expanets' uncollectible 

receivables. 

       72.  Prior to the filing of Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2002, 

through various communications, including emails, written reports, analyses, andlor verbal 

discussions, Fresia also knew or was reckless in not knowing that millions of dollars of Expanets 

receivables from before and after EXPERT implementation had aged further and likely remained 

uncollectible. 

       73.  For example, on or about September 19,2002, approximately two weeks before 

Northwestern's  equity offering, Fresia met with Northwestern personnel to discuss the status of 

Expanets' accounts receivable.  At that meeting, Fresia provided Northwestern personnel with a 

written report which indicated that $52 million of Expanets' receivables were over 180 days old, 

including $21 million of receivables that were over 300 days old. 

       74.  Because these severely aged receivables were not likely to be collected, standard 

collection parameters, as indicated within the report, suggested either writing off Expanets' 

receivables or increasing its bad debt reserve by approximately $46 million.  Because many of 

Expanets'  aged receivables resulted from billing lapses and delays, Fresia informed 

Northwestern  personnel that Expanets believed its bad debt reserve was understated by a lesser 

amount, approximately $32 million.  Accordingly, the analysis within the report ultimately 

quantified a bad debt write-off of approximately $32 million.  However, following this meeting, 

Fresia did not increase Expanets' bad debt reserve by any amount. 

       75.  In other internal communications authored by Fresia prior to Northwestern's  filing 

of its Form 10-Q for the third quarter, Fresia repeatedly acknowledged his belief that losses 
---------------------Page 18---------------------

stemming from the need to increase Expanets' bad debt reserve were both probable and 

reasonably estimable. 

       76.  For example, in an October 6,2002 email to other Expanets personnel regarding a 

working capital analysis, Fresia stated that he "believe[s] that a $30M writedown of the really 

old stuff is inevitable." 

       77.  Similarly, in an October 8, 2002 email to other Expanets personnel, Fresia wrote the 

following about the status of Expanets' level of days sales outstanding ("DSO"): 

       DSO -we  are preparing a normalized view of the DSO after a $30M write-down for 
       really old A/R accounts. Our more detailed aging has resulted in our having a much 
       better handle on what is and is not realizable. A typical D&B [Dunn & Bradstreet] 
       assessment would say $46M is at risk.  Due to our situation, I'm subjectively saying that 
       only 213 of that number is at risk ($46M * 213 = $30M). If the $30M is subtracted from 
       the A/R balances for each Q in 2003 the DSO is substantially lower (like two weeks 
       lower).  This makes improvement more difficult than what one might otherwise think.  In 
       my opinion, DT [Deloitte  & Touche  LLP]  will not accept our $7M bad debt reserve as 
       adequate for the age of the AIR that we currently have.  Therefore, I believe that the 
       $30M adjustment will need to be a 4th~ charge. 

       78.  On or about October 22,2002,  Fresia met with Northwestern personnel and 

informed them that Expanets' accounts receivable balance had shown virtually no improvement 

since his September 19 report and presentation.  During this meeting, Fresia made a new 

presentation to Northwestern personnel regarding Expanets' accounts receivables, the unlikely 

event of collecting them all, and the need to increase Expanets' bad debt reserve by 

approximately $30 million to account for this loss.  However, following this meeting, Fresia did 

not increase Expanets' bad debt reserve by any amount. 

       79.  Based upon his receipt of accounts receivable aging information and his failure to 

adjust the bad debt reserve for badly aged receivables, Fresia knew or was reckless in not 

knowing that the failure to increase Expanets' bad debt reserve in the third quarter of 2002 would 
---------------------Page 19---------------------

and did cause a material misstatement of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income for that 

period. 

       80.  As a member of Expanets' disclosure subcommittee for purposes of Northwestern's 

internal SOX disclosure process for the third quarter of 2002, Fresia reviewed and assisted 

Northwestern  personnel in drafting the company's Form 10-Q as it pertained to Expanets.  As 

part of that process, Fresia affirmed the accuracy of the following disclosure in Northwestern' 

Form 10-Q filed with the Commission: 

       In the integration of customers and the migration to Expert, Expanets experienced 
       billing lapses and data conversion issues that may cause a need to increase the 
       current reserve for bad debt, which could negatively impact financial performance 
       in future quarters. 

       8 1.  Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that this disclosure was false and 

misleading because, by that time, Expanets' bad debt reserve was, in fact, already materially 

understated. 

       82.  In April 2003, Northwestern  filed its 2002 Form 10-K which included fourth 

quarter 2002 charges of approximately $20 million relating to Expanets' uncollectible accounts 

receivable, and simultaneously restated its financial results for the second and third quarters of 

2002, increasing Expanets' bad debt reserve for each of these periods by approximately $5.1 

million and $6.3 million, respectively. 

        83.  As a result of Fresia's improper accounting for Expanets' uncollectible accounts 

receivable, Northwestern  overstated its income from continuing operations by approximately 

19% and 39% for the second and third quarters of 2002, respectively, as reported in its Forms 

 10-Q and corresponding earnings releases attached to Forms 8-K.  Moreover, in its segment 

reporting for Expanets, Northwestern  overstated Expanets' operating income by approximately 

86% and 270%' respectively, for the second and third quarters of 2002. 
---------------------Page 20---------------------

F.     Fresia Was Responsible For Expanets' Material Understatement        Of Its Reserve For 
       Adiustments to Customer Bills For the Second and Third Quarters of       2002 

       84.  As a result of the inaccurate customer bills generated by the EXPERT system, 

Expanets issued partial credits to affected customers. Expanets recorded these credits as "billing 

adjustments," which reduced both its revenue and income in the current period.  Since Expanets 

credited customer accounts in periods after it initially recognized revenue from a transaction, 

Expanets maintained a "billing adjustment reserve" for anticipated credits to customer accounts. 

       85.  Under GAAP, if Expanets' additional losses from billing adjustments were probable 

and could be reasonably estimated, Expanets should have increased its billing adjustment 

reserve.  With respect to the second and third quarters of 2002, Fresia failed to ensure that the 

published financial statements of Northwestern  conformed with GAAP applicable to Expanets' 

billing adjustments. 

       86.  In the second quarter of 2002, Expanets personnel repeatedly informed Fresia that 

due to the serious ongoing problems with EXPERT'S billing function, year-to-date actual billing 

adjustments, as well as billing adjustments forecasted through the remainder of 2002, were 

continuing to far outpace the higher levels anticipated for 2002. 

       87.  For example, on August 14,2002, the same day Northwestern  filed its Form 10-Q 

for the second quarter of 2002, Fresia received a report from Expanets personnel indicating that 

Expanets' billing adjustments for July 2002 alone were approximately $9.6 million, which was 

an increase from June's billing adjustments of approximately $6.3 million.  That report also 

estimated that Expanets' billing adjustments for the third and fourth quarters of 2002 would be 

approximately $28.7 million and $18 million, respectively. 

       88.  Furthermore, emails and other internal documents authored by Fresia demonstrate 

that he knew or was reckless in not knowing of the magnitude of Expanets' actual year-to-date 
---------------------Page 21---------------------

billing adjustments, forecasted billing adjustments during the remainder of 2002, and their 

negative impact on Expanets' financial results. 

       89.  For example, during a July 2002 meeting, Fresia warned Northwestern  senior 

executives that Expanets' billing adjustment reserve might be understated by as much as $30 

million for 2002. 

       90.  Despite Fresia's knowledge and internal correspondence reflecting his belief that 

Expanets' billing adjustment reserve was already likely understated, with Fresia's knowledge 

and approval, for the second quarter of 2002, Expanets reduced its billing adjustment reserve by 

$2.3 million for the purpose of enhancing Expanets' reported income. 

       91.  At the time of the second quarter reduction of Expanets' billing adjustment reserve, 

Expanets' assistant controller told Fresia that she was uncomfortable with the decision to reduce 

the reserve because, among other things, Expanets' billing adjustments were trending upwards. 

       92.  Fresia therefore knew or was reckless in not knowing that the reduction of Expanets' 

billing adjustment reserve in the second quarter of 2002 would and did cause a material 

misstatement of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income for that period. 

       93.  In the third quarter of 2002, Expanets personnel repeatedly informed Fresia that due 

to the serious ongoing problems with EXPERT'S billing function, Expanets' existing billing 

adjustment reserve would not be sufficient to absorb year-to-date actual billing adjustments, and 

billing adjustments forecasted through the remainder of 2002. As a result, Expanets personnel 

told Fresia that "extraordinary billing adjustments," that is, billing adjustments in excess of 

existing or planned reserves, would negatively impact Expanets' reported revenue and income. 

       94.  For example, in an August 2002 report to Northwestern that Fresia reviewed and 

approved, Expanets estimated that it would experience $14 million in "extraordinary billing 
---------------------Page 22---------------------

adjustments" for the remainder of the year.  These projected extraordinary billing adjustments 

were material since they decreased Expanets' projected 2002 EBITDA at that time from 

approximately $94 million down to approximately $80 million. 

       95.  Similarly, in reports distributed in September and October to Northwestern  that 

Fresia reviewed and approved, Expanets estimated that it would experience $14.2 million and 

$15.5 million, respectively, in extraordinary billing adjustments for the period June through 

December 2002.  Again, these extraordinary billing adjustments were material to Expanets' 

projected 2002 EBITDA which, by October 2002, had decreased to approximately      $71.2 million. 

       96.  Fresia's internal correspondence prior to the filing of Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for 

the third quarter reflected his belief that Expanets' billing adjustment reserve was already likely 

understated.  For example, in an October 13,2002 email in which Fresia discussed his current 

projections for Expanets' 2002 operating results, Fresia wrote: "I've assumed another $2M in 

BAS [billing adjustments].  We came in at $6M overall in September. That's an extraordinary 

$3.4M  - $300K more than we'd anticipated.  I think that the $2.5M (extra) that we have 

forecasted for the 4thQ is light." 

       97.  Despite Fresia's knowledge and internal correspondence reflecting his belief that 

Expanets' billing adjustment reserve was already likely understated, with Fresia's knowledge 

and approval, for the third quarter of 2002, Expanets reduced its billing adjustment reserve by an 

additional $4.0 million for the purpose of enhancing Expanets' reported income. 

       98.  At the time of the third quarter reduction of Expanets' billing adjustment reserve, 

Expanets' assistant controller again told Fresia that she was uncomfortable with the decision to 

reduce the reserve because, among other things, the reserve did not appear sufficient to absorb 

forecasted billing adjustments during the remainder of 2002. 
---------------------Page 23---------------------

       99.  Fresia therefore knew or was reckless in not knowing that Expanets' reduction of its 

billing adjustment reserve and Expanets' failure to increase the billing adjustment reserve to 

account for forecasted billing adjustments during the remainder of 2002 in the third quarter of 

2002 would and did cause a material misstatement of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported 

income for that period. 

       100. In April 2003, Northwestern restated its financial results for the first three quarters 

of 2002, increasing the billing adjustment reserve by $33 million.  For the second and third 

quarters of 2002, Northwestern's  restated financial results corrected the understatement of 

Expanets' billing adjustment reserve by reducing reported quarterly revenue by approximately 

$10.1 million and $5.4 million, respectively. 

       101.As a result of Expanets' improper accounting for billing adjustments, Northwestern 

overstated its income from continuing operations by approximately 46% and 3 1% for the second 

and third quarters of 2002, respectively, as reported in its Forms 10-Q and corresponding 

earnings releases attached to Forms 8-K. In its segment reporting for Expanets, Northwestern 

overstated Expanets' operating income by approximately 1094% and 164%' respectively, for the 

second and third quarters of 2002 based on this improper accounting. 

G.     In the Alternative, Fresia Was Responsible For Northwestern's  Failure to Disclose 
       Expanets' Continpent Losses Regarding Billing Adjustments in the Company's 
       Form 10-0  for the Third Quarter of 2002 

       102. Under GAAP, even if the amount of the probable losses was not reasonably 

estimable, Northwestern was required to disclose contingent losses relating to Expanets' billing 

adjustments, as long as the loss was considered at least reasonably possible. 

       103. Therefore, in the alternative, Fresia was responsible for Northwestern's  failure to 

disclose the reasonable possibility of contingent losses relating to Expanets' billing adjustments. 
---------------------Page 24---------------------

       104. Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Expanets faced at least the 

reasonable possibility of material contingent losses relating to its billing adjustments by at least 

August of 2002.  For example, just hours before Northwestern filed its 2002 second quarter 

Form 10-Q with the Commission, Fresia proposed that Northwestern make the following 

disclosure regarding Expanets' billing adjustments: 

       While the EXPERT system implementation and migration of historical data from Avaya 
       was successful overall, we experienced some conversion anomalies with regard to 
       maintenance billing.  The rate modifications are currently being addressed via an 
       electronic automated solution throughout the third quarter.  An increase in billing 
       adjustments related to this process is expected during this period.  Beginning in the fourth 
       quarter of 2001, the company increased the rate of billing adjustment reserves.  It is 
       anticipated that these additional reserves will be consumed in the third quarter through 
       the correction of these maintenance anomolies [sic]. 
                      f 
       105.Northwestern personnel declined to include this proposed language in the 

company's 2002 second quarter Form 10-Q, at least in part, on the grounds that Fresia's 

proposed disclosure was submitted too late for inclusion. Therefore, Northwestern made no 

disclosure as to the reasonable possibility of any contingent losses relating to Expanets' billing 

adjustments in its second quarter Form 10-Q. 

       106. In a September 1,2002 email to Northwestern's  CFO, Fresia explained his 

motivation for his belated recommendation that Northwestern make some disclosure regarding 

Expanets' billing adjustment exposure as follows: 

        We're all working harder than we ever have and we'll get it done, but we need to 
        consider resetting expectations with the Street. I know that we're somewhat painted 
        into a corner by the need to issue equity, but other than the (non-recurring) billing 
        setbacks, Expanets has a great success story in this economy. . . . [W]e don't know each 
        other well and I'm trying to be straight with you. I tried to create a glide path in the 
        [Northwestern's second quarter Form]      10Q  with that subtle comment on billing 
        adjustments.   I wanted to be able to demonstrate (down the road) that we had 
        made a previous disclosure.   (emphasis added) 
---------------------Page 25---------------------

       107. As a member of Expanets' disclosure subcommittee for purposes of Northwestern's 

internal SOX disclosure process for the third quarter of 2002, Fresia reviewed and assisted 

Northwestern personnel in drafting the company's Form 10-Q as it pertained to Expanets. As 

part of that process, Fresia and other Expanets disclosure subcommittee personnel noted to 

Northwestern that "[wle continue to experience higher than expected levels of billing 

adjustments into the fourth quarter of 2002, perhaps as much as $4.OM in excess of projections. 

The adjustments experience is attributable to continuing problems with our Expert System." 

However, as to the final draft, Fresia signed an internal certification attesting to the accuracy of 

Northwestern's  third quarter Form 10-Q pertaining to Expanets which did not include any 

disclosures concerning Expanets' billing adjustments. 

       108. In the alternative, even if the amount of the probable losses was not reasonably 

estimable, Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the third quarter was false and misleading in that it 

failed to disclose the reasonable possibility of any contingent losses relating to Expanets' billing 

adjustments. 

       109. Due to Fresia7s knowledge and his participation in Northwestern's  internal SOX 

disclosure process for the third quarter, he was responsible for Northwestern's  failure to disclose 

in its 2002 third quarter Form 10-Q the reasonable possibility of any contingent losses relating to 

Expanets' billing adjustments. 

H.     Fresia Was Responsible for Northwestern's  Failure to Disclose That a Material 
       Portion of Expanets' Reported Income During the Second and Third Ouarters 
       Constituted Non-recurring; Reserve Reductions 

       110. In February 2002, Northwestern publicly announced that, due to softness in the 

telecommunications sector, it expected Expanets' annual revenues to be lower in 2002 compared 

to 2001.  However, Northwestern also told investors that, even with less revenue, Expanets 
---------------------Page 26---------------------

would be profitable because Expanets had reduced its workforce and expected to realize other 

cost savings as a result of the implementation of the EXPERT system. 

       11 1. Due to an even softer economy than expected and the problems experienced by the 

EXPERT system, Expanets' financial performance each quarter lagged the aggressive 2002 

earnings targets set by Northwestern. 

       112. Therefore, during the second and third quarters of 2002, with Fresia's knowledge 

and approval, Expanets reduced approximately 14 different reserve accounts for the purpose of 

materially improving Expanets' earnings. 

       113. Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  Forms 10-Q and 

other public statements regarding the second and third quarters were false and misleading 

because the company failed to disclose that Expanets' non-recuning reserve reductions 

constituted a material portion of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income. 

       114. In May 2002, just weeks after beginning his employment with Expanets, Fresia 

asked his accounting staff to prepare a schedule showing the status of Expanets' reserve 

accounts.  In response, the Expanets accounting staff identified more than $40 million that, 

depending upon the outcome of contingencies, could possibly be reversed out of the reserve 

accounts, thereby improving Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income. 

       1 15. Thereafter, Fresia and Northwestern's  senior management repeatedly discussed 

during the second quarter of 2002 how Expanets could meet or exceed its earnings targets in 

large part through the use of reductions in reserve accounts. 

       116.For example, in a May   8, 2002 email to Expanets personnel, Fresia wrote: "I'm 

particularly interested in your thoughts on Q2 (i.e. the organic miss of $4M vs the $19.5M 
---------------------Page 27---------------------

forecast) -do you really think that we'll need to unwind that much from the B.S. [Balance 

Sheet]?" 

       117. Similarly, in a May 16,2002 email to Expanets personnel in which Fresia discussed 

various ways in which Expanets could achieve its 2002 earnings targets, Fresia wrote: "assume 

B.S. helps (where needed) to shore up the $83M EBITDA up to $92M." 

       118. Furthermore, in a May 19,2002 email to Expanets personnel in which Fresia 

discussed what earnings Expanets should report for the month of April and the resulting effects 

on the second quarter results, Fresia wrote: 

        I think that we should consider reporting EBITDA at $6.1M (with $lM B.S. help).   If it 
        turns out that the field was being overly consistent [sic] in their last minute accruals, it 
        will reverse out next month.  Also, if [Northwestern] wants $24M for 24  it will provide 
        a smoother monthly trend. 

       119. Despite Fresia's frank internal discussions with Expanets and NorthWestern 

personnel throughout 2002 about the significance of Expanets' reserve reductions on Expanets' 

and Northwestern's  reported income, Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that 

Northwestern  and Expanets planned to conceal this information from the public. 

       120. For example, in a May 30,2002 email to Fresia, an Expanets senior executive wrote: 

       Rick, 

       I would suggest that this be lead [sic] by you and we all have an opportunity to 
       word smith it, we need to give NOR [Northwestern] a [sic] answer that they can 
       be using with the street (and we can use it as well) that answer the question: 

       If Revenues aren't ramping to the   $919M   level by the end of the year, why 
       are you so certain that the EBITDA    target is going to be reached? 

       The answer as we all know it is on the balance sheet but that isn't the answer I 
       would like to use -the basis for the answer needs to lie in improving systems, 
       operating efficiencies, etc that allow us to more tightly manage our balance sheet 
       with the highest degree of confidence (i.e allowing us to unwind what we need). 
       (Bold in the original) 
---------------------Page 28---------------------

       12 1. Furthermore, Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that disclosure of material 

non-recurring items was required. 

       122. For example, in an August 18,2002 email to Expanets personnel, Fresia admitted 

that "[v]irtually all publicly traded companies separate material non-recurring problems from the 

results from their continuing operations." 

       123. Fresia knew of and approved Expanets' reduction of its reserve accounts by 

approximately $8.8 million in the second quarter of 2002 -an amount that represented 80% of 

Expanets' reported operating income of $1 1 million and 27% of Northwestern's  reported 

income from continuing operations of $2 1 million. 

       124. Due to Fresia's knowledge and his participation in Northwestern's  internal SOX 

disclosure process for the second quarter, he was responsible for Northwestern's  failure to 

disclose in its 2002 second quarter Form 10-Q the material impact of Expanets' reserve 

reductions. 

       125. With Fresia's knowledge and approval, Expanets' reserve reductions accelerated 

sharply in the third quarter of 2002 as Expanets' results from operations continued to badly lag 

its internal targets. 

       126.Fresia's own internal correspondence continued to demonstrate that he was taking 

personal responsibility for Expanets' reserve reductions and that he understood their materiality 

to Expanet's and Northwestern's  reported income. 

       127. For example, in an August 18,2002 email to Expanets personnel, Fresia outlined 

ways in which Expanets could still meet its 2002 earnings targets despite Expanets' problems 

with its billing adjustments. Among other things, Fresia wrote that "[blalance sheet is my call 

and I'm taking it." 
---------------------Page 29---------------------

       128. In a separate August 18,2002 email to Expanets personnel, Fresia acknowledged the 

significance of Expanets' reserve reductions to July reported EBITDA by explaining that:  "The 

BS [balance sheet] number was $1 1M. We used $5M (leaving $7M left) to pump EBITDA from 

$lM to $6M in July." 

       129. Furthermore, in a September 5,2002 email to Expanets and Northwestern 

personnel, Fresia indicated that, to view Expanets' 2003 budget plan accurately, Expanets and 

Northwestern  senior executives had to consider that almost 25% of Expanets' 2002 projected 

EBITDA would most likely consist of approximately $19 million in "helps" such as "unwinding 

balance sheet accruals." 

       130. In addition, in preparing its reported income and EBITDA for the third quarter of 

2002, Expanets informed Northwestern  that it planned to report EBITDA which was several 

million dollars short of quarterly and nine-month year-to-date targets set by Northwestern. 

       13 1. Ultimately, after discussion with Northwestern personnel on October 22,2002 

regarding Expanets' quarterly and nine-month year-to-date results, Fresia agreed to reduce 

Expanets' reserves by an additional $4.2 million, thereby increasing Northwestern's  and 

Expanets' reported income by the same amount. 

       132. The day after the October 22 meeting, Expanets, with Fresia's knowledge and 

approval, sent a spreadsheet to Northwestern personnel setting forth all of the reserve reductions 

made by Expanets through the first three quarters of 2002.  Expanets' spreadsheet to 

Northwestern  showed that, year-to-date, Expanets had reduced its reserve accounts by $38.5 

million to report $17 million in operating income and approximately $56.2 million in EBITDA 

over the first three quarters of 2002. 
---------------------Page 30---------------------

       133.With respect to the third quarter, Expanets' spreadsheet demonstrated that in the 

third quarter alone, Expanets had reduced its reserves by approximately $27 million, enabling 

both Northwestern  and Expanets to report positive income rather than losses.  Accordingly, 

Fresia knew that the amount of Expanets' reserve reductions for the third quarter 2002 was 

material to both Northwestern's  and Expanets' results of operations for that period. 

       134.With respect to the third quarter of 2002, Fresia further knew or was reckless in not 

knowing that without the $27 million of reserve reductions, Expanets would have reported a 

substantial loss rather than the $8.7 million in operating income it originally reported for that 

quarter.  The amount of Expanets' reserve reductions also represented approximately 120% of 

Northwestern's  reported income from continuing operations of $15 million for that quarter, and 

enabled Northwestern  to report a profit rather than a loss. 

       135.Due to Fresia's knowledge and his participation in Northwestern's  internal SOX 

disclosure process for the third quarter, he was responsible for Northwestern's  failure to disclose 

in its 2002 third quarter Form 10-Q the material impact of Expanets' reserve reductions. 

       136.Fresia also knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's 

Northwestern's  amended second quarter Form 10-Q filed on September 20,2002, 

Northwestern's  Form S-4lAmendment #2 filed August 16,2002; Form S-41Amendment         #3 filed 

September 9,2002;  and Northwestern's  equity offering prospectus supplements filed with the 

Commission on September 30,2002  and October 3,2002 were false and misleading in that they 

failed to disclose that Expanets' non-recurring reserve reductions constituted a material portion 

of Expanets' and NorthWestern's reported income during the second quarter of 2002. 
---------------------Page 31---------------------

.      Fresia Was Responsible for Northwestern's  Failure to Disclose That a Material 
       Portion of Expanets' Reported Income During; the Second and Third Quarters Was 
       Derived From Its Receipt of Unusual Non-Compete Payments From a Competitor 

       137. In conjunction with Expanets' acquisition of certain assets of a competitor, Expanets 

agreed that, in exchange for payments from the competitor, Expanets would not solicit specific 

business of the competitor's customers.  Expanets' competitor was obligated to make these "non- 

compete" type of payments to Expanets until March 2005.  These payments were not 

characteristic of Expanets' regular operations and therefore represented unusual transactions. 

       138. During the second and third quarters of 2002, and through various communications, 

including email, written reports, analyses, and verbal discussions, Fresia knew or was reckless in 

not knowing that Expanets had received these non-compete payments and that they would 

materially impact Expanets' reported results for those periods. 

       139. For example, from April through September 2002, Fresia reviewed and approved 

Expanets' monthly reports to Northwestern  each of which demonstrated the amount of monthly 

income earned by Expanets for these non-compete payments and their resulting effect on 

Expanets' results. 

       140. In the second quarter of 2002, Northwestern  reported in its segment disclosures that 

Expanets had operating income of approximately $1 1 million.  Approximately $10 million of 

Expanets' income came from the non-compete payments.  The $10 million also represented 

approximately 3 1% of Northwestern's  consolidated income from continuing operations for the 

quarter.  Accordingly, the amount of these non-compete payments was material to the operating 

results of both Northwestern  and Expanets for that period. 

       141. In the third quarter of 2002, Northwestern  reported in its segment disclosures that 

Expanets had operating income of approximately $8.7 million.  Approximately $15.3 million of 
---------------------Page 32---------------------

Expanets' income came from the non-compete payments.  The $15.3 million also represented 

approximately 68% of Northwestern's  consolidated income from continuing operations for the 

quarter. Accordingly, the amount of these non-compete payments was material to the operating 

results of both Northwestern  and Expanets for that period. 

       142.Northwestern's  Forms 10-Q for the second and third quarters of 2002 were false 

and misleading because they failed to properly disclose Expanets' receipt of these unusual non- 

compete payments and their material effect on Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported results of 

operations for those periods. 

       143.Due to Fresia's knowledge and his participation in Northwestern's  internal SOX 

disclosure process for the second and third quarters of 2002, he was responsible for 

Northwestern's  failure to disclose in its Forms 10-Q the impact of the unusual non-compete 

payments to Northwestern's  and Expanets' reported results of operations. 

       144.Fresia also knew or was reckless in not knowing that NorthWestern's amended 

second quarter Form 10-Q filed on September 20,2002, Northwestern's  Form S-4lAmendment 

#2 filed August 16,2002; Form S4lAmendment  #3 filed September 9,2002;  and 

Northwestern's  equity offering prospectus supplements filed with the Commission on 

September 30,2002  and October 3,2002 were false and misleading in that they failed to 

properly disclose the impact of the unusual non-compete payments to Northwestern's  and 

Expanets' reported results of operations. 

                               FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
                        Fraud  -Violations  of Section 17(a)(l) of the  
                           Securities Act 115 U.S.C. 6 77q(a)(l)l)  

       145. Paragraphs 1 through 144 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 
---------------------Page 33---------------------

       146.As a result of the foregoing, Fresia, directly and indirectly, with scienter, in the offer 

or sale of Northwestern  securities, by use of the means or instruments of transportation or 

communication in interstate commerce or by use of the mails, has employed a device, scheme, or 

artifice to defraud. 

       147. Defendant Fresia violated Section 17(a)(l) of the Securities Act because, among 

other things, he improperly accounted for Expanets' uncollectible receivables and adjustments to 

customer bills, causing material overstatements of the reported income of Expanets and 

Northwestern  in the second and third quarters of 2002.  Fresia also violated Section 17(a)(l) 

because, as part of Northwestern's  internal SOX disclosure process for the second quarter of 

2002, he caused NorthWestern's failure to disclose in its 2002 Form 10-Q for that period 

Expanets' reasonably possible losses from uncollectible receivables and adjustments to customer 

bills, and that a material portion of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income during the 

quarter was derived from non-recurring, reserve reductions and Expanets' receipt of unusual 

non-compete payments. 

       148. Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  materially false 

and misleading financial statements and disclosures contained in its Form 10-Q for the second 

quarter of 2002 was incorporated into Northwestern's  following Securities Act filings: 

Northwestern's  Form S-4lAmendment #2 filed August 16,2002; Form S-4lAmendment #3 filed 

September 9,2002;  and Northwestern's  equity offering prospectus supplements filed with the 

Commission on September 30,2002  and October 3,2002. 

       149.Fresia thereby violated, and unless restrained and enjoined, will violate Section 

17(a)(l) of the Securities Act. 
---------------------Page 34---------------------

                              SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
                    [Fraud  - Violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3)  
                    of the Securities Act 115 U.S.C. 6 77q(a)(2) and (3)1)  

       150.Paragraphs 1 through 144 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

       15 1. As a result of the foregoing, Fresia, directly and indirectly, with scienter, in the offer 

or sale of Northwestern  securities, by use of the means or instruments of transportation or 

communication in interstate commerce or by use of the mails, has obtained money or property by 

means of untrue statements of material fact or omissions to state material facts necessary in order 

to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not 

misleading; or engaged in transactions, practices, or courses of business which have been or are 

operating as a fraud or deceit upon the purchasers of Northwestern  securities. 

       152. Defendant Fresia violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act 

because, among other things, he improperly accounted for Expanets' uncollectible receivables 

and adjustments to customer bills, causing material overstatements of the reported income of 

Expanets and Northwestern  in the second quarter of 2002.  Fresia also violated Sections 17(a)(2) 

and 17(a)(3) because, as part of Northwestern's  internal SOX disclosure process for the second 

quarter of 2002, he caused Northwestern's  failure to disclose in its 2002 Form 10-Q for that 

period Expanets' reasonably possible losses from uncollectible receivables and adjustments to 

customer bills, and that a material portion of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income 

during the quarter was derived from non-recurring, reserve reductions and Expanets' receipt of 

unusual non-compete payments. 

        153. Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing that Northwestern's  materially false 

and misleading financial statements and disclosures contained in its Form 10-Q for the second 

quarter of 2002 was incorporated into Northwestern's  following Securities Act filings: 
---------------------Page 35---------------------

Northwestern's  Form S-4lAmendment #2 filed August 16,2002; Form S-4lAmendment #3 filed 

September 9,2002;  and Northwestern's  equity offering prospectus supplements filed with the 

Commission on September 30,2002  and October 3,2002. 

       154.Fresia violated, and unless restrained and enjoined, will violate Sections 17(a)(2) 

and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act. 

                               THIRD   CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
               [Fraud  - Violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and  
              Rule 10(b)(5) thereunder 115 U.S.C. 66 78i(b) and 6240.10b-51)  

       155. Paragraphs 1 through 144 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

       156.Fresia, directly and indirectly, with scienter, in connection with the purchase or sale 

of Northwestern  securities, by use of the means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce or by 

use of the mails, employed devices, schemes, or artifices to defraud; made untrue statements of 

material fact or omitted to state material facts necessary in order to make the statements made, in 

light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; or engaged in acts, 

practices, or courses of business which had been and are operating as a fraud or deceit upon the 

purchasers or sellers of such securities. 

       157. Fresia's violations occurred in connection with the following Northwestern  filings 

pursuant to the Exchange Act:  Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30,2002, 

filed on August 14,2002, and the Amended Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30,2002,  filed 

on September 20,2002; Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30,2002, 

filed on November 14,2002; and Northwestern's  Forms 8-K with attached press releases filed 

on August 8, September 20 and November 7,2002.  Fresia knew or was reckless in not knowing 

that the misstated financial results within Northwestern's  Forms 10-Q filed on August 8, 

September 20 and November    7 for the second and third quarters were incorporated into 
---------------------Page 36---------------------

Northwestern's  corresponding press releases attached to Northwestern's  Forms 8-K filed on 

August 8, September 20 and November 7,2002. 

       158. Defendant Fresia violated Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 

thereunder because, among other things, he improperly accounted for Expanets' uncollectible 

receivables and adjustments to customer bills, causing material overstatements of the reported 

income of Expanets and Northwestern in the second and third quarters of 2002. Fresia also 

violated Section 10(b) and Rule lob-5 because, as part of Northwestern's  internal SOX 

disclosure process for the second and third quarters of 2002, he caused Northwestern's  failure to 

disclose Expanets' reasonably possible losses from uncollectible receivables and adjustments to 

customer bills, and that a material portion of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported income 

during those quarters was derived from non-recurring, reserve reductions and Expanets' receipt 

of unusual non-compete payments. 

       159. Fresia violated, and unless restrained and enjoined, will violate Section 10(b) of the 

Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder. 

                             FOURTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                        (Falsified Books and Records  --Violations of 
            Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchan~e Act 115 U.S.C.  6 78m(b)(5)1 
                   and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder 117 C.F.R.   6 240.13b2-1b 

       160. Paragraphs 1 through 144 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

       16 1. Fresia knowingly circumvented or knowingly failed to implement a system of 

internal accounting controls or knowingly falsified books, records, or accounts described in 

Section 13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act and directly or indirectly falsified or caused to be falsified, 

books, records or accounts subject to Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act. 

       162. The violations occurred because, as CFO of Expanets during the second and third 

quarters of 2002, Fresia knowingly failed to adequately adjust Expanets' reserves for bad debt 
---------------------Page 37---------------------

and billing adjustments in conformity with GAAP and knowingly circumvented or knowingly 

failed to implement a system of internal accounting controls by failing to establish and maintain 

sufficient internal controls to adequately track the level of such reserves. 

       163.Fresia violated, and unless restrained and enjoined, will violate Section 13(b)(5) of 

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 5 78m(b)(5)] and Rule 13b2-1 thereunder [17 C.F.R. 5 240.13b2-

                              FIFTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
iFalse SEC Filings --Aiding and Abetting of Northwestern's  Violations of Section 13(a) of 
the Exchange Act 115 U.S.C.  6 78m(a)l and Rules 12b-20,  13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder 
117 C.F.R. 86 240.12b-20,240.13a-11 and 240.13a-131) 

       164. Paragraphs 1 through 144 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

       165.Northwestern,  an issuer of a security registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the 

Exchange Act, filed materially misleading quarterly and current reports with the Commission. 

       166. By reason of the foregoing, Northwestern violated Section 13(a) of the Exchange 

Act [15 U.S.C. 5 78m(a)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder [17 C.F.R. $5 

240.12b-20,240.13a-11 and 240.13a-131. 

       167. As to Fresia, the violations occurred in connection with Northwestern's  Form 10-Q 

for the period ended June 30,2002, filed on August 14,2002, and its Amended Form 10-Q for 

the period ended June 30,2002, filed on September 20,2002; Northwestern's  Form 10-Q for the 

period ended September 30,2002, filed on November 14,2002; and Northwestern's  Forms 8-K 

with attached press releases filed on August 8, September 20 and November 7,2002. 

       168.Fresia knew of Northwestern's  violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and 

Rules 12b-20, 13a- 1 1 and 13a- 13 thereunder and substantially assisted Northwestern in 

committing these violations by, among other things: 
---------------------Page 38---------------------

        (a)  improperly accounting for Expanets' uncollectible receivables and adjustments to 

            customer bills, causing material overstatements of the reported income of Expanets 

            and Northwestern  in the second and third quarters of 2002; and 

        (b) causing Northwestern's  failure to disclose in its Forms 10-Q for the second and 

            third quarters of 2002, and the company's Amended Form 10-Q for the second 

            quarter of 2002: 

                    1   Expanets' reasonably possible losses from uncollectible receivables and 

                       adjustments to customer bills; and 

                    2   that a material portion of Expanets' and Northwestern's  reported 

                       income during the quarter was derived from non-recurring, reserve 

                       reductions and Expanets' receipt of unusual non-compete payments. 

       169.Fresia aided and abetted Northwestern's  violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange 

Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a- 1 1 and 13a- 13 thereunder, and unless restrained and enjoined will 

continue to aid and abet violations of these provisions. 

                               SIXTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
          (False Books and Records   -- Aiding and  Abetting Northwestern's Violations of 
                Section 13(b)(Z)(A) of the Exchange Act r15   U.S.C. 6 78m(b)(Z)(A)l) 

       170.Paragraphs 1 through 144 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

       171.By reason of Expanets' materially under-reserved accounts for uncollectible 

receivables and adjustment to customer bills in the second and third quarters of 2002, 

Northwestern failed to make and keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, 

accurately and fairly reflected the company's transactions and dispositions of its assets. 

       172.By reason of the foregoing, Northwestern violated Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  5 78m(b)(2)(A)]. 
---------------------Page 39---------------------

       173. Fresia knew of Northwestern's  violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange 

Act and substantially assisted Northwestern  in committing these violations by, among other 

things, improperly accounting for Expanets' uncollectible receivables and adjustments to 

customer bills, causing material overstatements of the reported income of Expanets and 

Northwestern  in the second and third quarters of 2002. 

       174. Fresia aided and abetted Northwestern's  violations of Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the 

Exchange Act, and unless restrained and enjoined will continue to aid and abet violations of 

these provisions. 

                             SEVENTH CLAIM        FOR   RELIEF  
     JInternal Accounting Controls Violations   -- Aiding and Abetting Northwestern's  
     Violations of Section 13&)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act   r15 U.S.C. 6 78m(b)(2)@)))  

       175.Paragraphs 1 through 144 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

       176. Northwestern  failed to devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls 

sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit 

preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles 

or any other criteria applicable to such statements and to maintain accountability for assets. 

       177. By reason of the foregoing, Northwestern  violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the 

Exchange Act [15  U.S.C. 3 78m(b)(2)(B)]. 

       178.The violations occurred because Expanets, a subsidiary of Northwestern,  failed to 

devise and maintain a system of internal accounting controls as to its uncollectible receivables 

and adjustments to customer bills sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that transactions 

were recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in conformity with 

GAAP or any other criteria applicable to such statements and to maintain accountability for 
---------------------Page 40---------------------

assets, and that the recorded accountability for assets was compared with the existing assets at 

reasonable intervals and appropriate action was taken with respect to any differences. 

       179. Fresia knew of NorthWestern's violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange 

Act and substantially assisted Northwestern  in committing these violations. 

       180. Fresia aided and abetted Northwestern's  violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the 

Exchange Act, and unless restrained and enjoined will continue to aid and abet violations of 

these provisions. 

                                   PRAYER FOR RELIEF 

The Commission respectfully requests that this Court: 

                                               I. 

       Find that Defendant Fresia committed the violations alleged. 

                                               11. 

       Enter an Injunction, in a form consistent with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil 

Procedure, permanently restraining and enjoining Defendant Fresia from violating, directly or 

indirectly, or aiding and abetting violations of the law and rules alleged in this Complaint. 

                                              111. 

       Order Defendant Fresia to disgorge all ill-gotten gains in the form of any benefits of any 

kind derived from the illegal conduct alleged in this Complaint, plus pre-judgment and post 

judgment interest. 

                                              IV. 

       Order Defendant Fresia to pay third tier civil penalties, including post-judgment interest, 

pursuant to Section 20(d) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. 5 77t(d)] and Section 2l(d)(3)  of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   5 78u(d)(3)]. 
---------------------Page 41---------------------

                                             v. 

       Order pursuant to Section 2 1 (d)(2) of the Exchange Act, as amended by Section 305 of 

the Sarbanes-Oxley Act [15 U.S.C. 5 78u(d )(2)], or pursuant to the equitable authority of the 

court, that Defendant Fresia be permanently barred from serving as an officer or director of any 

public company. 

                                             VI. 

       Order such other relief as is necessary and appropriate. 

DATED: July 23,2007 

                                                 Respectfully submitted, 

                                                   S/ Kurt L. Gottschall 
                                                 Elizabeth Espinosa Krupa 
                                                 303.844.1056 
                                                 Kurt L. Gottschall 
                                                 303.844.1 119 
                                                 Attorneys for Plaintiff 
                                                 Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                                 1801 California Street, Suite 1500 
                                                 Denver, CO  80202 
                                                 Switchboard 
                                                 303.844.1000 
                                                 Fax 
                                                 303.844.1068 
