---------------------Page 1---------------------

           Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 1 of 14

                           UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
                      FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS 
                                   EASTERN DIVISION 
                                                       
 : 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION            : 
 : 
 Plaintiff,                                           :    
                                                      :     Civ. No. 10-cv-4903 
 v.    :                                                  
         : 
JAMES W. MCINTOSH,                                    : 
THOMAS M. AKERS, JR.,                                 : 
JAMES J. STANAWAY,                                    : 
ERNEST A. STINSA, AND                                 : 
MICHAEL J. SCHULTZ                                    :       
 :                                                       
 Defendants.                                          : 
                                                      : 
 
                                       COMPLAINT 
                                               
               Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) alleges: 

       1.           This is an action to obtain civil penalties against five current and former 

employees of Navistar International Corp. (“Navistar” or the “Company”) for various violations 

of the federal securities laws.  The Complaint concerns improper and, with respect to four of the 

defendants, fraudulent accounting practices in various aspects of Navistar’s business, including 

vendor rebates, warranty reserve, vendor tooling buybacks, and fraudulent accounting at a 

Wisconsin foundry, from 2002 through 2005.  

                                      JURISDICTION 

       2.           The Commission seeks the imposition of civil monetary penalties pursuant to 

Section 20(d) of the Securities Act of 1933 [15 U.S.C. § 77t(d)] and Section 21(d)(3) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)]. 

       3.           This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Section 22(a) of the 

Securities Act [15 U.S.C.  §77v(a)] and Section 27 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78aa].  
---------------------Page 2---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 2 of 14

Venue lies in this district because Navistar’s corporate offices are located in Warrenville, 

Illinois, which is in this district, and because the transactions, acts, and omissions giving rise to 

this action occurred in this district. 

       4.           The defendants, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities 

of interstate commerce, or of the mails, in connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and 

courses of business alleged herein.    

                                        DEFENDANTS 

       5.           James W. McIntosh (“McIntosh”), 60, of Naperville, Illinois, was Vice President 

of Finance for the Engine Division throughout the relevant period.  In that position, McIntosh 

was the CFO of the Engine Division and was directly responsible for its accounting, financial 

reporting, and internal controls.  McIntosh was transferred to the Parts Group in January 2006 

and subsequently retired in May 2007. 

       6.           Thomas M. Akers, Jr. (“Akers”), 58, of Aurora, Illinois, was Director of 

Purchasing for the Engine Division from April 1996 through August 2004.  He was thereafter 

promoted to Vice President, Purchasing and Logistics and remained in that position until his 

retirement in January 2009.    

       7.           James J. Stanaway (“Stanaway”), 64, of Springfield, Ohio, was Director of 

Finance for the Engine Division during the relevant period through June 2004, when he retired 

from the Company.  In that role, Stanaway reported directly to McIntosh.   

       8.           Ernest A. Stinsa (“Stinsa”), 41, of Elmhurst, Illinois, replaced Stanaway as 

Director of Finance for the Engine Division in 2004.  Stinsa left Navistar in January 2006, but 

rejoined the Company in May 2010 in its Global Product Development division.  In his new 

capacity, Stinsa has no direct accounting or financial reporting responsibilities. 

                                                2
---------------------Page 3---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 3 of 14

       9.           Michael J. Schultz (“Schultz”), 45, of Waukegan, Illinois, was the Plant 

Controller at Navistar’s foundry in Waukesha, Wisconsin, during the relevant period.  Schultz 

was terminated in April 2005.   

                      OTHER RELEVANT PERSONS OR ENTITIES 

       10.        Navistar, a Delaware corporation headquartered in Warrenville, Illinois, is a 

holding company whose principal subsidiary, Navistar, Inc. (f/k/a International Truck and 

Engine Corporation), manufactures and markets commercial trucks, school buses, diesel engines, 

and related parts worldwide.  During the relevant period, Navistar’s securities were registered 

with the Commission pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act and traded on the New York 

Stock Exchange.   As of November 30, 2009, Navistar had 70,718,762 shares outstanding.    

                                           FACTS 

             Fraudulent and Other Improper Accounting Practices at Navistar 
                                                
                                       Vendor Rebates 
                                                
              11.        During the 2001 to 2004 time period, Navistar ramped up its engine production 

beyond initial expectations and correspondingly increased its purchases of engine parts from 

suppliers.  Navistar sought to share in those suppliers’ unanticipated profits by asking them to 

pay a portion back to the Company in the form of rebates.  Under Generally Accepted 

Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), a company could recognize rebates only when they were 

actually earned, i.e., when the entity had substantially accomplished what was necessary to be 

entitled to such rebates.  Accordingly, Navistar could record the full rebate as income in the then-

current period only if no contingencies existed on its right to receive the rebate.  Conversely, the 

Company was prohibited from booking rebates as income in the then-current period if they were 

based on future business.    

                                               3
---------------------Page 4---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 4 of 14

       12.        During this period, Navistar booked 35 rebates and related receivables from its 

suppliers.  Of those rebates and receivables, as many as 30 were improperly booked.  While 

these rebates and receivables took different forms -- including volume-based rebates and so-

called “signing bonuses” for Navistar’s award of new business -- all were improperly booked as 

income in their entirety upfront, even though, in whole or in part, they were earned in future 

periods.  The Company’s eventual restatement of these rebates and receivables totaled $9.7 

million of pre-tax income in 2004 and $8.5 million in 2003, which represented 27.7 percent and 

2.7 percent, respectively, of the restated loss before income taxes for those years. 

         13.      The vast majority of these receivables were volume-based rebates that Navistar 

obtained from its suppliers at the end (or even after the end) of the fiscal year.  As contingent 

consideration for paying these rebates, however, many suppliers required the Company either to 

agree to new business or to repay the amount of the rebate in the form of waived price 

concessions on already-agreed upon future business.  The Engine Division booked these rebates, 

often using the same form letter (which in certain instances was back-dated) that falsely stated 

that the rebate  was based on past purchases and had no contingencies.  In some instances, 

certain Engine Division employees also generated side-letter arrangements with vendors that 

detailed that the rebates were contingent on future purchases and/or the vendor could recoup the 

rebate through inflated future prices by which the Company would forego agreed-upon price 

reductions.  Additionally, these side-letters stated that Navistar would refund the rebate 

accordingly if the Company failed to make sufficient future purchases.  These side-letters made 

clear that these rebates had not actually been earned at the time the amounts were recognized. 

       14.        In one instance, “Vendor Rebate 1,” a supplier executed a form rebate letter 

drafted by Navistar, and dated October 19, 2004, that said the supplier was providing the 

Company a $2.1 million rebate based on “2004 volume and piece price productivity 

                                                4
---------------------Page 5---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 5 of 14

improvements.”  However, the very next day, October 20, 2004, the parties executed a side-letter 

arrangement that specifically stated that half of the rebate was based on pulling forward 

productivity improvements expected to be achieved in 2005.  Navistar also agreed to refund any 

shortfall to the supplier should these improvements not be achieved.   Thus, the side-letter made 

clear that the supplier’s rebate was contingent on future business with the Company.   

Nevertheless, Navistar approved the rebate and booked the entire dollar amount in fiscal year 

2004. 

       15.        Another form of these improperly-booked rebates were so-called “signing 

bonuses” that Navistar demanded and received from certain suppliers in exchange for awarding 

new business.  Despite the fact that the suppliers’ payments were contingent on receiving that 

new business from Navistar, the Company booked the rebates in their entirety during the then-

current period in which they were received, instead of when earned over the period of the future 

business.  

       16.        In one such instance, “Vendor Rebate 2,” McIntosh contacted Stanaway four days 

after the 2003 fiscal year-end to discuss the need to fill an earnings shortfall.  Stanaway, in turn, 

discussed the shortfall with Akers, who in exchange for promising to provide future business to a 

particular supplier in 2004, convinced the supplier to agree to pay a $6.2 million signing bonus to 

the Company and to provide Navistar with a letter that would allow the Company to book the 

full amount in 2003.  The vendor had never before done business with Navistar.  Akers had 

engaged in previous discussions with the vendor about possible future business and the payment 

of a signing bonus, but the terms of the signing bonus were not finalized until after the 2003 

fiscal year-end.  Stanaway, who had no direct role in acquiring the rebate, then approved an entry 

recording the $6.2 million as income in 2003.   

                                                5
---------------------Page 6---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 6 of 14

       17.        McIntosh, Akers, and Stanaway understood that to be booked in the current 

period, such rebates could not be contingent or otherwise based on future business.   Despite this 

understanding, McIntosh and Akers directly negotiated or otherwise arranged for the Company 

to enter into and book certain rebates during the then-current period knowing, or recklessly 

failing to know, that such rebates were contingent on future business.  As recorded, these rebates 

were not in compliance with GAAP.  Additionally, McIntosh and Akers directly or indirectly 

approved the creation and use of letters that they knew or recklessly failed to know did not 

reflect material aspects of the transaction. 

       18.        Akers initiated the concept at Navistar of seeking vendor rebates based on volume 

increases and often supervised the employees negotiating the vendor rebates and related 

receivables.  In several instances, including Vendor Rebate 1 and Vendor Rebate 2, Akers 

directly or indirectly approved rebates that he knew, or recklessly failed to know, were tied to 

future business but would nonetheless be booked in the then-current period.  Akers participated 

directly in the negotiations of multiple rebates and, in certain instances, personally received both 

a “clean letter” and “side-letter” for the same rebate, which was evidence that the rebate had 

contingencies.    

       19.        As CFO of the Engine Division, McIntosh was responsible for the accounting for 

all Engine receivables during the relevant period, including all vendor rebates.  McIntosh was 

involved in the planning of at least three rebates, including Vendor Rebate 2, knowing, or 

recklessly failing to know, that they were contingent on future business but would nonetheless be 

booked in their entirety in the then-current period.    

       20.        As Director of Engine Finance, Stanaway approved the recording of receivables 

from fiscal 2001 through 2003, including all vendor rebates.  Stanaway typically was not 

involved in the negotiation of vendor rebate agreements or the procuring of “clean” letters that 

                                                6
---------------------Page 7---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 7 of 14

supported the booking of such rebates, and usually became involved in these transactions only at 

the final approval stage.  Despite his lack of involvement in obtaining these vendor rebates, 

Stanaway  approved the booking of certain rebates as income, including the booking of Vendor 

Rebate 2, knowing, or recklessly failing to know, that they were contingent on future business 

and should not be booked as income in the current period.   Stanaway had little accounting 

background or formal training in GAAP at the time of the transactions. 

              21.        Stinsa succeeded Stanaway for a relatively brief period, from July 2004 until 

January 2006.  As Stanaway’s successor, Stinsa was not involved in the negotiation of vendor 

rebate agreements or the procuring of “clean” letters that supported the booking of such rebates.  

Instead, Stinsa became involved in the vendor rebate process only when asked on a sporadic 

basis to approve booking certain rebates.  While authorized to approve booking these 

receivables, Stinsa’s primary responsibilities did not include these transactions, and he had little 

accounting background or formal training in GAAP at the time of the transactions.  For example, 

Stinsa did not specifically know whether booking so-called “signing bonuses” into income in the 

then-current period was consistent with GAAP; instead, he assumed it was, because he knew the 

Company had a practice of soliciting and booking such receivables.  In fiscal 2004, Stinsa 

erroneously approved the booking of a $4 million signing bonus based on a letter that, while 

expressly stating that the bonus was unconditional, also stated that the payment concerned the 

award of “new” business.  Stinsa should have inquired whether the receivable was, in fact, 

contingent on the vendor’s expected new business with Navistar.  Stinsa erroneously approved 

the booking of two other vendor rebates in fiscal 2004, including another signing bonus and a 

volume-based rebate.  In approving these rebates without sufficient inquiry, Stinsa directly or 

indirectly caused Navistar to enter a false financial book, record or account.     

                                                 

                                                7
---------------------Page 8---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 8 of 14

                                        Vendor Tooling 

       22.        Prior to 2003, Navistar periodically entered into amortization agreements 

concerning the cost of tooling with vendors.  Under these arrangements, the vendors purchased 

the tooling they used to make parts sold to Navistar, and the Company repaid the suppliers for 

those tooling costs through amortization payments incorporated in the piece-price rates of the 

parts ultimately sold to Navistar.  In 2003, the Company determined that in some instances, 

instead of continuing these amortization payments, the Company would benefit (in part through 

beneficial accounting treatment) by purchasing the tooling outright from the suppliers and 

depreciating the tooling costs going forward over a longer period.  Consequently, in 2003, the 

Company initiated a program pursuant to which Navistar arranged to terminate certain of these 

amortization agreements and acquired the tooling via lump sum payments to the suppliers.  

However, instead of paying suppliers the remaining unamortized tooling cost as of the 2003 

purchase date, the Company paid the suppliers a dollar amount equivalent to the unamortized 

tooling cost as of the beginning of the 2003 fiscal year.  Since Navistar had already been paying 

amortization to the suppliers since the start of that fiscal year (i.e., November 1, 2002), the 

Company arranged to receive back from those suppliers a “rebate” equivalent to those year-to-

date amortization payments.  The Company then improperly booked these rebates into income.  

In addition, the Company improperly deferred depreciation costs related to the tooling buybacks.   

       23.        In 2003, two Navistar employees approached the Company’s outside auditor 

regarding the accounting for certain contemplated tooling buyback transactions.  After learning 

of the planned accounting for the program, e-mails indicate that the auditor informed the 

employees that the recapture and booking of previously-paid amortization into income was 

improper.  While certain transactions were booked in fiscal year 2003 because they were 

believed to be of immaterial dollar amounts, e-mails indicate that the auditor informed the 

                                               8
---------------------Page 9---------------------

            Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 9 of 14

Company that no such transactions would be permitted in fiscal year 2004.  Despite being 

informed of these developments, McIntosh used a “60-day rule” and authorized Engine Division 

employees in 2004 to record 60 days of amortization recaptured as income based on the 

Company’s payment terms.  In so doing, McIntosh disregarded employees’ warnings that 

continuing to record the recapture of amortization as income would be inconsistent with the 

auditor’s guidance on the accounting.    

       24.        In disregarding that guidance, McIntosh knew or recklessly failed to know that 

Navistar booked income in violation of GAAP.  In 2004, the Company restated a total of $1.6 

million in income related to the vendor tooling buyback program, or 4.6 percent of the restated 

loss before income taxes for that year. 

                                          Waukesha 

       25.        From 2001 to 2005, Schultz, the Waukesha plant controller, engaged in various 

fraudulent accounting practices that collectively caused income during that period to be 

overstated by a total of approximately $38 million.  

       26.        From early 2003 through 2005, Schultz directed the plant manager of accounting to 

delay processing certain vendor invoices that had been received and to refrain from accruing those 

unprocessed invoices in accounts payable as current period expenses in order to help reach certain 

plant financial goals.    

       27.        From about 2001 through 2005, Schultz directed the plant manager of accounting 

to alter the Waukesha inventory numbers at the end of every month in order to improve the 

plant’s financial operating results.  Schultz failed to utilize Waukesha’s designated accounting 

software in accounting for the inventory movements and usage and instead tracked the inventory 

manually, which made it easier for him to record erroneous totals.  When periodic physical 

inventory counts taken at the plant found the recorded inventory balances to be overstated, 

                                               9
---------------------Page 10---------------------

           Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 10 of 14

Schultz failed to record appropriate adjustments to lower the inventory balances.  As a result of 

this conduct, Waukesha’s books falsely indicated the plant had $11 million in inventory that did 

not exist, and consequently understated materials expenses by that amount. 

       28.        Schultz deferred certain costs relating to a purported arrangement with a 

contractor that provided services relating to parts manufactured at Waukesha.   Pursuant to a 

purported side agreement entered into by a former Waukesha employee, Waukesha had agreed to 

pay higher upfront costs to the contractor as a means to help finance the start-up of the 

contractor’s business.  In return, the contractor purportedly agreed to reduce its prices to Navistar 

in future periods.  The agreement was not in writing; additionally, there was no evidence that the 

contractor guaranteed to repay any specified higher upfront costs.  Nevertheless, beginning in 

2002, Schultz deferred the entire dollar amount of certain of the contractor’s invoices (i.e., not 

just a portion representing higher upfront amounts paid  to the contractor), effectively 

understating expenses in order to “smooth out earnings.”  Schultz deferred approximately $2.4 

million of those costs in the first quarter of fiscal 2003, and another $700,000 in the third quarter 

of fiscal 2003.    

              29.        Schultz also improperly deferred certain costs related to Waukesha’s installation 

of a new manufacturing line. Before installation of the manufacturing line was complete, the 

general contractor stopped work and filed for bankruptcy.  As a result, the Company was 

required to pay off subcontractors’ liens and pay to have the installation completed by other 

subcontractors.  From 2002 through 2005, Schultz deferred about $3 million that Navistar 

incurred in start-up expenses under the supposed theory that the Company would recover those 

costs from the bankrupt general contractor.    

       30.        Schultz engaged in the aforementioned conduct in an attempt to improve 

Waukesha’s financial results.   The aggregate monetary impact of Schultz’s accounting 

                                               10
---------------------Page 11---------------------

           Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 11 of 14

misconduct was material to Navistar’s financial statements.  Schultz knew or recklessly failed to 

know that the actions described above were not in compliance with GAAP.    

                                      Warranty Reserve 

       31.        Beginning in fiscal year 1999, the Engine Division assumed responsibility for 

accounting for its warranty reserve, which reflected the Company’s estimated future warranty 

costs on engines installed in the majority of Navistar manufactured trucks.  The warranty accrual 

estimate process began with the Engine Division’s Reliability & Quality (“R&Q”) group, which 

generated an estimated warranty cost per unit, or CPU, for each engine sold. This calculation 

incorporated certain “above-the-line” items, including well-established or known steps (e.g., 

implemented engineering fixes) that were viewed, based on historical trends or data, to have 

effectively reduced warranty costs.   The CPU was the primary basis for the warranty reserve 

amount; the higher the CPU, the higher the reserve.  

       32.        The warranty reserve-setting process should have been governed by accounting 

rules related to contingent liabilities.  Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 

(“SFAS”) No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies - Appendix A; With Respect to Obligations 

Related to Product Warranties and Product Defects, warranty reserves must be established when 

it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably 

estimated. 

       33.        When R&Q’s CPU calculation was presented to Stanaway, and then ultimately to 

McIntosh, both typically stated that the initial estimated reserve number was too high for the 

Engine Division’s business plan.  Without sufficient consideration for the relevant accounting 

rules, Stanaway and McIntosh typically then directed R&Q to add certain “below-the-line” items 

to the warranty reserve calculation process because they thought these items would reflect 

potential reductions that the Company hoped to achieve in future warranty costs.  These “below-

                                               11
---------------------Page 12---------------------

           Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 12 of 14

the-line” items included anticipated vendor reimbursements and engineering fixes that lacked 

historical trend or other data evidencing their likely effectiveness.  For example, Stanaway and 

McIntosh directed R&Q to include anticipated vendor reimbursements in    the warranty reserve 

calculation despite the lack of any specific language in the vendor contracts providing for such 

recoveries.  Instead, the Company relied on the existence of standard provisions in supply 

agreements or the Illinois Commercial Code to support the contemplated vendor 

reimbursements.  During the relevant period, approximately 50 percent of the vendor recoveries 

deducted below the line from warranty reserve calculations were based on something other than 

specific contractual language.  Moreover, the Company often did not receive reimbursements 

from vendors for engine warranty claims.  Stanaway and McIntosh al  so directed the inclusion in 

the warranty accrual calculation of anticipated engineering fixes that lacked historical and 

empirical data evidencing their likely effectiveness.   Certain anticipated fixes were incorporated 

into the CPU calculation before they had even been implemented.   At McIntosh and Stanaway’s 

insistence, R&Q included these “below-the-line” items in its warranty reserve calculation, and 

these components consistently reduced the warranty reserve.   

       34.        The inclusion of these anticipated vendor reimbursements and engineering fixes 

was not in compliance with GAAP.  Stanaway and McIntosh knew or should have known that 

the warranty reserve-setting process was governed by accounting rules relevant to contingent 

liabilities, yet failed to consider or apply such rules in establishing Navistar’s warranty reserve.  

Stanaway and McIntosh also knew or should have known that including anticipated vendor 

reimbursements and engineering fixes without data evidencing their effectiveness was not in 

compliance with GAAP.   

        35.       The below-the-line items inappropriately included in the reserve calculation 

caused the warranty expense to be understated by $17 million in fiscal year 2002 and by $18.5 

                                              12
---------------------Page 13---------------------

           Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 13 of 14

million in fiscal year 2003.  The $18.5 million total represented 5.9 percent of the restated loss 

before income tax for that year.  

                                          CLAIMS 

                                              I. 

                    Violations of Section 17(a) of the Securities Act and   
                     Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 
 
       36.        Based on the foregoing, Defendants McIntosh, Akers and Schultz violated Section 

17(a) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77q(a)] and Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 

U.S.C. § 78j(b)] and Rule 10b-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5]. 

                                              II. 

                                                
              Violations of Sections 17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act 
                                                
        37.        Based on the foregoing, Defendant Stanaway violated Sections 17(a)(2) and 

17(a)(3) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. §77q(a)(2) and §77q(a)(3)].   

                                              III. 

                          Violations of Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 

       38.        Based on the foregoing, Defendants McIntosh, Akers, Stanaway, Stinsa and 

Schultz violated Exchange Act Rule 13b2-1 [17 C.F.R. §240.13b2-1], which in relevant part, 

prohibits persons from directly or indirectly causing any book, record or account subject to 

Section 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act to be falsified.   

                                                
                                  PRAYER FOR RELIEF 

       WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that this Court enter a final 

judgment which: 

                                              13
---------------------Page 14---------------------

               Case 1:10-cv-04903   Document 1    Filed 08/04/10   Page 14 of 14

                   (a)      Orders the Defendants to pay civil monetary penalties pursuant to Section 

20(d) of the Securities Act [15 U.S.C. § 77t(d)] and/or Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 

U.S.C. §78u(d)(3)] in respect of their violations; and  

                   (b)     Grants such other relief as this Court may deem necessary and appropriate  

under the circumstances. 

      Respectfully Submitted, 

      /s/John E. Birkenheier                                                                          
      John E. Birkenheier (Ill. Bar No. 6270993)  
      Securities and Exchange Commission  
      175 West Jackson Boulevard, Suite 900 
      Chicago, IL 60604 
      Tel.: 312.886.3947 
      Fax : 312.353.7398 
 
Date:  August 4, 2010 
 
 
                              
                              

                                                               14
