---------------------Page 1---------------------

                             UNITED   STATES    DISTRICT     COURT
 
                            FOR   THE   DISTRICT    OF  COLUMBIA
 

  SECURITIES     AND   EXCHANGE      COMMISSION 
  100 F STREET,    N.E. 
  WASIllNGTON,      DC  20549 

                Plaintiff,                                   Case:  1:10-cv-01318 
                                                            Assigned To : Roberts,  Richard W. 
         v.                                                 Assign.  Date:  8/6/2010 
                                                             Description:  General Civil 
  UNIVERSAL      CORPORATION 

                Defendant. 

                                         COMPLAINT 

         Plaintiff, Securities and Exchange Commission  (the "Commission"),  alleges: 

                                          SUMMARY 

         1.     From 2000 through 2007, Universal  Corporation  ("Universal" or the "Company") 

  violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the "FCPA") by paying, through its 
                                                         .	                               ~ .
  subsidiaries, over $900,000 to govemmentofficials inThailand  and Mozambique to ill:fluertce 

..	 acts and decisions by those foreign officials to obtain or retain business for Universal.  Those  . 

  payments were directed by employees at multiple levels ofthe company, including management 

  in its corporate offices and at its wholly- or majority-owned  and controlled foreign subsidiaries. 

  The Company had inadequate internal controls to prevent or detect any ofthese improper 

  payments, and improperly recorded the payments  in its books and records. 

         2.     Between 2000 and 2004, Universal subsidiaries paid approximately $800,000  to 

  b~be officials ofthe government-owned  Thailand Tobacco Monopoly ("TTM")     in exchange  for 

  securing approximately $11.5 million in sales contracts for its subsidiaries in Brazil and Europe. 

  From 2004 through 2007, Universal subsidiaries made a series ofpayments in excess of 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

$165,000 to government  officials in Mozambique,  through corporate subsidiaries  in Belgium  and 

Africa.  Among other things, the payments  were made to secure an exclusive  right to  purchase 

tobacco from regional growers and to procure legislation  beneficial to the Company's  business. 

       3.      In addition, between 2002 and 2003, Universal, subsidiaries paid $850,000  to high 

ranking Malawian  government officials.  Those payments  were authorized by, among others, two 

successive regional heads for Universal's  African  operations.  Universal did not accurately. 

record these payments  in its books and records. 

       .4.     Universal violated Section 30A [15   U.S.c. § 78dd-l]  of the Securities Exchange 

Act of 1934 ("Exchange  Act")  by  making, through  its subsidiaries,  illicit paYlilents to foreign 

government  officials in order to obtain or retain business.  Universal also violated Section 

13(b)(2)(B) [15 U.S.C.  §78m(b)(2)(B)]   ofthe Exchange  Act   by failing to have an adequate 

internal control system in place to detect and prevent  the illicit payments,  and violated  Section 

13(b)(2)(A) [15 U.S.C.  § 78(b)(2)(A)] of the Exchange Act   by improperly recording  the 

payments in its books and records. 

                                JURISDICTION  AND VENUE                                       "  . 

       5.      This Court has jurisdiction  over this action pursuant  to Sections 21 (d), 21 (e) and 

27 of the Exchange  Act [15 U.S.C.  §§ 78u(d), 78u(e) and 78aa]. 

       6.      Venue  in the District ofColumbia  is proper pursuant  to Section  27 ofthe 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   § 78aa]. 

       7.      In connection with the conduct described herein,  Universal made use   of the mails 

or the means or instrumentalities ofinterstate commerce. 

                                         DEFENDANT 

       8.      Universal is a holding company incorporated  in the state of Virginia with 

headquarters  in Richmond, Virginia.  Universal operates primarily  through its wholly-owned 

                                                2
 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 U.S. subsidiary,  Universal Leaf Tobacco  Company,  Incorporated  ("Universal    Leaf') and 

 domestic  and international  subsidiaries ofUniversal  Leaf.  Universal  and its subsidiaries 

 purchase,  process  and sell leaftobacco  throughout  the world.  Universal's  common  stock is 

 registered  with the Commission  pursuant  to Section  12(b) offb.,e ~xchange Act and is listed on 

 the New  York Stock Exchange. 

                                               FACTS 

                        A.  Payments  to  the Thailand   Tobacco  Monopoly 

                                             Background 

         9.      The TTM   was a government    owned  tobacco  monopoly  that, thIough  2005, had
 

 purchased tobacco from Universal    Leaf for decades,  Universal  Leaf relied on third-party
 

. commission  agents to assist its sales to the TTM. In or around  1999, Universal  Leaf's two 

 commission  agents told  Umversal   Leaf that, because ofthe  high cost ofU.S. tobacco,  the TTM 

 sought to shift some of its tobacco purchases  to other  countries.  The commission  agents 

 proposed  that Universal Leaf  consider  offering to sell the tobacco  from Universal's  Brazilian 

...slJbsidiary,' to therIM.·1beBrazilian -. slJPsidiary,Universal LeafTabacos.Limitada("ULTL"), 
 .....   ,"                 "   :.            '     ".    ."      '.".          '.  ".

 was located in Santa  Cruz do SuI, Brazil and served  as the regional  headquarters  for Universal's 

 South American  operations 

         1O.    In or around early 2000,  Universal  Leaf selected one of its two commission  agents 

 t6 assist ULTL  in arranging  sales to the TTM.  The commission  agent arranged  for 

 representatives of the TIM   to travel to Brazil to visit ULTL and another potential  Brazilian 

 tobacco  supplier.  A UL TL account representative  was assigned  to the TIM   account  and worked 

 with the commission  agent to coordinate  the TTM's   trip to Brazil. 

         11.    On or about March  11, 2000, a   UL TL  executive  hosted  a dinner  in Brazil for the 

 visiting TTM  delegation.  The dinner was also attended  by two  UL  TL sales directors, an account 

                                                  3
 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 representative  for the TIM accotmt, and the commission  agent.  During the course  of the 

  evening, the commission  agent had a private conversation  with the UL TL executive, the account 

 representative  and one or both ofthe sales directors.  The commission  agent stated that,  in order 

 to obtain the TIM   business, ULTL would have    to agree to pay "special expenses."  These so­
                                                                ........ 

  called "special  expenses"  were kickbacks that would be paid to certain members of the TIM. 

  The commission  agent advised ULTL that each    of the Brazilian  tobacco suppliers seeking to sell 

 to the TTM would be required to   pay these expenses. 

                               ULTL's  2000 Contract with the    TTM 

         12.     Upon the commission  agent's  return to Thailand  she sent a f~to ULTL 

  requesting "confIrmation  on the special expenses."  'She indicated  that the other Brazilian 

 tobacco supplier seeking  to sell tothe TIM  should "have the same expenses."  Shortly 

 thereafter, the ULTL account representative  confmned  that ULTL would     pay the special 

 expenses.  In later communications  with the commission  agent, the UL  TL  account representative 

 indic,ated that ULTL would be   coordin~ting with the other potential  Brazilian tobacco supplier 

...:"ip..ordertogowiththe saJ;Ileprice [and]specialexpenses"  and c,onfIrmed,that ULTLwouldpay 

 $100,000 in special expenses as designated  by the commission  agent. 

         13.     On or about March 23,2000,  ULTL submitted a bid through the commission 

 agent to the TIM   offering the sale oftobacco.  The bid price was inflated by the amount of 

 "special  expenses" to be paid to TIM  representatives.  On March  29,2000,  the commission 

 agent sent an email to ULTL advising that the  TIM   board had  met and "the request to purchase 

 Brazil tobacco, to replace part ofthe U.S. tobacco"  was officially  approved.  The total value of 

 ULTL's   2000 contract with the TTM was $1,617,904.40  and included the amount     of the special 

 expenses 

         14.	   In April 2000, the commission agent notifIed  ULTL   that the TTM would make a 

                                                 4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 second visit to Brazil. In coordination  with its commission  agent, ULTL  helped  organize touring 

 activities for the visiting TIM delegation  and, along with the other Brazilian  supplier that had 

 been awarded  a contract, paid for the tourist aspects ofthe TTM's  Brazil trip. At the 

 commission  agent's  request, ULTL also agreed   to reimburse the .	 commission  agent $3,000 in
                                                                  ~~                     -   . 

 "pocket money"  for members    ofthe TTM delegation. 

         15.    The following month, the commission  agent informed Universal  that another 

 Brazilian tobacco supplier wanted  to sell tobacco to the TTM.  The agent sent a fax to the then­

 head  ofUniversal  Leaf (Asia) Pte. Ltd. ("Universal leafAsia"), a corporate office ofUniversal 

 located in Singapore whose purpose  was to facilitate  Universal's  Asian sales,- On May 17,2000, 

 the head of Universal  Leaf Asia wrote to ULTL   in a cover note forwarding  a fax received  from 

 ULTL's   commission  agent, "What  [the agent] is saying is that ifthe 'special  expenses'  are paid 

 prior to the next visit by the [TTM Managing  Director J ... there should be no problem with other 

 cheaper quotes." 

         16.    In June and July 2000, ULTL directed the payment     of the $100,000 in special 

...	 expensestoan account identifiedbythe cOlIlJJiissionagent. The account was held at a  bank in . 

 Thailand in the name  of a business that purports to be a Thai fruit export company. On  June  12, 

 2000, ULTL sent a fax signed   by a ULTL Finance  executive and ULTL's  Commercial  Director 

 requesting that a $50,000 "commission"  payment be issued on its behalf to the account 

 designated by  the commission  agent.  This request was directed to a vice president ofUniversal 

 Leaf and the payment was to be made from the account     ofLATCO,    a wholly-owned  subsidiary 

 of Universal  based in Richmond,  VA.  ULTL sent no additional  information   to support the 

 requested  commission  payment.  The Universal   Leaf vice president  signed and processed the 

 request.  LATCO issued the requested payment     on or about June  13,2000  and recorded the 

 payment as "commissions  paid." 

                                                  5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

        17.    On July 6, 2000, UL TL faxed another request to the same Universal Leaf vice 

.president asking that LATCO make a second "commissIon" payment     of$50,000   to the same 

account in Thailand.  That request was signed by ULTL's Finance Director and the account 

representative for the TIM. Again, ULTL sent no supporting.dQ.cumentation with the request. 

The Universal Leaf vice president signed the request and LATCO issued the requested payment 

on or about July 6, 2000.  The payment was recorded in LATCO's  books as "commissions paid." 

        18.    On or about July 10, 2000, ULTL, through LATCO, also reimbursed     the 

commission agent for $3,000 in pocket money that she provided to the  TTM   delegation and 

recorded the payment as "commissions paid." 

               Universal's 2000 Contract to Sell Malawian  Tobacco to the   TTM 

        19.    On or about October 24,2000,  the TTM contracted to purchase Malawian tobacco 

from a European subsidiary  ofUniversal, Utolco S.A. ("Utolco"), which was sourced  by 

Universal's  Malawian subsidiary Limbe Leaf Tobacco Company ("Limbe Leaf').  The value      of 

the contract with the TTM was $1,565,500. 

       20, .   Utolco's $aleofMalawian  tobacco  tothe TTMwa,scoordinatedby  and between a        .,. 

sales director in Universal Leaf Asia's  office and the same commission agent who facilitated 

ULTL's  sale to the TTM:  The Universal Leaf Asia sales director instructed Limbe Leaf 

personnel to follow the instructions provided by the commission agent, .including for the 

payment  of commissions, to complete the sale. 

       21.     In accordance with the commission  agent's instructions, Limbe Leafpersonnel 

arranged a purported inspection visit to Malawi for a TIM delegation and Utolco paid certain of 

the delegation's  airfare expenses of$2,149.87,  and $3,000 in "pocket money." 

       22.     On August  16, 2000, the commission agent requested that Limbe Leaf  pay 

$35,000 of the "special expenses" to the same bank account in Thailand to which LATCO had 

                                               6
 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 previously  directed the special expenses.  Limbe Leaf requested  that the paynlent  be made from 

 Utolco and, on  or about November  9, 2000, requested  that Utolco pay the balance  of $100,000  in 

  special expenses.  Utolco made both payments. 

         23.     On or about November  9, 2000, Limbe   Leaf  req1!l?sted that Utolco pay a separate 

  commission  of$77,838  to the commission  agent, representing  the agent's  earned commissions 

  on the value ofthe Malawian tobacco  contract with the TIM.    After the 2000 sale, Universal 

 made no further sales  of Malawian tobacco to the TTM. 

                    ULTL Continues the    TTM  Kickback   Scheme   Through  2004 

         24.     ULTL continued the kickback scheme in each     ofthe next four-years in 

  substantially the same fashion.  Each year, the commission  agent would negotiate  the quantity 

  and price at which ULTL would offer to supply tobacco   to the TTM with   one of three successive 

  account representatives  at ULTL.  The commission  agent would  instruct UL TL  as to the amount 

  of"special  expenses" that would need to be paid to the TIM.  Each year, ULTL·coordinated  its 

  bid price with one or more other Brazilian tobacco  suppliers to the TIM.. Each of the Brazilian 

...	 suppliers,  including.ULTL,illflated  its bid price to.account.for  the "special  expenses" and 

 transmitted  additional funds to its respective agent who each understood  would  in tum direct the 

 payments to the TTM representatives.  The Universal  Leaf Asia sales director  who  had 

 coordinated the Malawian tobacco sales contract with the   TIM   in 2000.a.ssumed responsibility 

 for facilitating ULTL's  interactions with the commission  agent for the TIM  account.  Each year, 

 ULTL·directed LATCO to pay the special expenses,  and each year either    UL  TL or LA  TCO 

 would separately pay the agent a commission  on the sale. 

                                                2001 

      .  25.    Between January and April 2001, the ULTL account representative,  along  with 

 the commission agent, negotiated the terms on which ULTL would offer to sell tobacco  from the 

                                                  7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

2001 Brazilian crop to the TTM.  On or about April 2, 2001, the ULTL account  representative 

transmitted the offer to theTTM  through the commission  agent.  The TTM   subsequently 

awarded ULTL a sales contract for $4,560,054, including the amount   of the special expenses. 

       26.     On or about June 28, 2001, the commission   agep.t.~mailed the account 

representative and  the Universal LeafAsia sales director requesting that ULTL pay 50%   ofthe 

special expenses for the order.  The commission agent instructed ULTL  to make the payment  to 

an account in the name of an individual in Hong Kong who was not known to ULTL ("the Hong 

Kong account").  The commission agent explicitly directed UL  TL  to "advise  your bank not to 

mention our name in the remittance instruction." 

       27.     On or about July 5, 2001, ULTL sent a fax to the Universal Leaf vice president  in 

Richmond, VA, who had facilitated the LATCO payments in connection      with  the 2000 sale to 

the TTM, to request that LATCO pay $110,000    to the Hong Kong account.  The   fax indicated 

that it was for payment of a "commission"  on the TTM business.  The request was sent  by an 

individual in the shipping department at ULTL and was signed by a UL   TL Finance executive 

and the account representative, No other documentationsupporting  the payment  request was           -            : . ".' 

provided.  LATCO issued the requested payment    on or about July 6, 2001, and recorded it as 

"commissions  paid." 

       28.    On August 20,2001,  the same individual in  ULTL's   shipping department  sent a" 

second fax to the Universal Leaf vice president in Richmond, VA requesting that LATCO issue a 

second payment of$110,000  to the Hong Kong account.  The text    of the fax stated that the 

payment was for the "50% (Balance)   of 'special  expenses'"  on the TIM sale.  The request  was 

signed by a ULTL Finance executive and an account representative.  No other documentation 

supporting the payment request was provided.  LATCO issued the requested payment     on or 

about August 21, 2001, and recorded it as "commissions  paid." 

                                               8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

                                              2002 

       29.     In or around February 2002, the commission  agent and ULTL account 

representatives  began discussing the TIM's  2002 tobacco  order.  The next month, the 

commission agent notified UL  Tt  that the TTM delegation  wo;uld. travel to Brazil in April to 

sample tobacco, and stated that ULTL should provide $1,000 in pocket money per traveling 

delegation member.  The TTM completed its trip to Brazil   in April and, on July  17,2002,  ULTL, 

through LATCO, reimbursed the commission  agent $3,000 for "pocket money"  she      had  provided 

to members  of the TIM   delegation for the trip, and $973 for flight upgrades.  LATCO recorded 

these payments as "commissions  paid." 

       30.     On April 24, 2002, the commission  agent emailed the ULTL account· 

representative and  the Universal Leaf Asia sales director stating that she had met with the 

commission agents for the two other Brazilian tobacco suppliers to the TTM   and the TTM's 

Managing Director.  She learned that the ""special expenses" that year would be $0.45 per 

kilogram ""based on the condition that there are only the 3 regular suppliers." In that same 

email,inr~ferencetothe   inspection trip, the commission agent wrote  ""The official version [of 

the trip] was that the TTM directors went along to see the working but really went for the 

pleasure trip (the perks) as none ofthem has ever been to Brazil ....However,  some things  are 

better left unsaid." 

       31.     In or around April 2002, ULTL, through its commission agent, sent the   TTM   an 

offer to supply tobacco.  The bid price included ""special expenses" of $0.45 per kilogram.  On or 

before June 10,2002,  The TTM awarded ULTL a sales contract for $1,075,200,  including the 

amount  of special expenses. 

       32.     On or about September 4, 2002, the commission agent emailed the account 

representative and  the Universal Leaf Asia sales director requesting payment of special expenses 

                                                9
 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

and wrote, "please be advised not to state 'special  expenses for TTM' in the bank application 

form for remittance otherwise the Hong Kong account will have a problem." 

       33.     On or about September  17,2002,  ULTL emailed the Controller   ofUniversal and 

ofUniversal  Leaf in Richmond, VA, an "urgent"  request that LATCO   pay  $86,400 to the Hong 

Kong account.  The email stated "for your info this payment refers to a sale done to the Thailand 

Tobacco Monopoly.  No reference should be made in the application form."  The email was sent 

by the same employee who previously transmitted  requests for payment from ULTL.     The 

employee copied a ULTL Finance executive and a ULTL sales director     on the email. No other 

documentation  supporting the payment  request was provided.  LATCO issued-the requested 

payment on or about September 19,2002;  and recorded it as "commissions  paid." 

                                             2003 

       34.    Between January  and April 2003, the ULTL account representative, along with 

the commission  agent, negotiated the terms on which ULTL would offer   to sell tobacco from the 

2003 Brazilian crop to the TTM.  On  or about April  1,2003,  ULTL transmitted  an offer to the 

TTM thr.oughthe .commission   agent  The TTIyf.subsequently. awarded ULTL·   a sales contractfor 

$1,130,880.  The contract price included special expenses to be paid to the TTM of$0.50 per  . 

kilogram. 

       35.    On  or about September  1,2003,  ULTL emailed the Director  of Accounting  for 

Universal Leaf in Richmond, VA, a request that LATCO pay $96,000 to the Hong Kong 

account.  The email stated "This payment refers to 'Special Expenses'  covering our sale to 

Thailand."  The email was sent by the same individual in the ULTL shipping department who 

had made  payment requests in 2001 and 2002 and was copied to a ULTL Finance executive, a 

ULTL sales director, and the account representative.  No other documentation  supporting the 

payment request was provided.  LATCO issued the requested payment on     or about September  3, 

                                              10
 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 2003, which it recorded in as "commissions  paid." 

                                               2004 

         36.    In or around July 2004, the ULTL account representative,  along with  the 

 commission  agent, began to negotiate the terms  on which  ULTL~would   offer t6 sell tobacco  from 

 the 2004 Brazilian crop to the TTM.  On or about  July  15, 2004, theULTL   account 

 representative  learned that the special expenses for that year would be approximately  $0.80 per 

 kilogram and emailed the commission  agent,   "I do not see many alternatives for us. We  have to 

 play the game according to the rules;  We are not so happy about these extra 30  cents (0.50 in 

 2003 to 0.80 in 2004), because it will affect our margins significantly."  The commission  agent 

 wrote back, in part, "there is nothing much one can do... " and copied the email exchange to 

 another ULTL account representative  and to the Universal  Leaf  Asia sales director. 

        37.     On  or about July 21,2004, through the commission  agent, the account
 

 representative transmitted  an offer to the TTM inflating the price to include the amount ofthe
 

 "special expenses" to be paid.  The TTM   subsequently  awarded UL  TL  a sales contract for
 

.:$1;472,256 thatincludedthe  special.expenses....    ,,' 

        38.     On or about November  25, 2004, the commission  agent emailed the ULTL 

 account representative,  a second account representative  and th~ Universal LeafAsia Sales 

 Director that she was informed by the commission agent  for another Brazilian tobacco supplier 

 that the special expenses were to be $0.85 per kilogram  and asked ULTL to remit the special 

 expenses to the Hong Kong account. 

        39.     On or about December  7,2004,  ULTL emailed the Director     ofAccounting  for 

 Universal Leaf in Richmond, VA, a request that LATCO pay $195,040 to the Hong       Kong 

 account, noting that the payment "refers to 'Special  expenses'"  covering our 2004 sales to the 

 Thailand Tobacco Monopoly."  In the same email, ULT requested that LATCO transmit 

                                                 11
 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

$61,897.77 to a Gennan  bank account for the comrtlission agent, noting that this "amount  refers 

to 5% commission  on net FOB payable to our Agent."  The same shipping department  employee 

at ULTL who sent requests for payment  in the years 2001 through  2003 sent the email, copying a 

ULTL Finance executive and account representative,  and a third·employee at ULTL.    No other 

documentation  supporting the payment request was  provided.  LATeO   issued both requested 

payments on or about December 8, 2004, and   s~parately recorded  each payment  as 

"commissions  paid." 

       40.    In 2005, the TIM  changed  to a "blind"  electronic  auction process for purchasing 

tobacco.  The commission agent continued to work with ULTL  and advised that the system 

would be transparent and that no special expenses  would be paid. The account representative 

emailed ULTL's  president about the new process,  "[A]nycompanycanparticipate.     So, instead 

ofcompeting with other 5 suppliers and having a certain agreement  on volumes  and prices, we 

should be competing with anyone that wants to do business with Thailand without any pre­

agreement. [... ]  There should not be any special expenses included and prices  should drop 

drastically."                              .. ...                                 . 

       41.    ULTL successfully bid in the electronic auction and was awarded a contract 

valued at $3,125,230.  After 2005, ULTL declined  to further bid in the auction  process and 

ULTL has not since sold tobacco to the TTM. 

                           B.  Payments  to Mozambican  Officials 

       42.    Beginning in or around March 2004 and continuing through  approximately 

September 2007, Universal subsidiaries made improper payments  totaling approximately 

$165,000 to five Mozambican government officials  and/or their family members  at the direction, 

or with the authorization, ofthe regional director at Universal Leaf Africa (Pty) Limited 

("Universal Leaf Africa"). 

                                              12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

         43.      On or about March  26,2004,  Universal  Leaf Africa made the first of what were 

 intended to be two $10,000 payments to the wife   of an official in Mozambique's  Ministry  of 

 Agriculture and Fisheries.  The payment, made through Universal's  Belgian subsidiary,  was to 

 obtain the Director's  assistance in revising legislation  to impose a. 20% export tax on 

 unprocessed tobacco.  This legislation would have benefitted Universal over its competitors 

 because Universal was building a tobacco processing  plant in the country.  A second payment 

 was to be made once the legislation went into effect; however,  it was not passed and no 

 additional payment was made.  The $10,000 payment was recorded in the subsidiary's  books and 

 records as a "consultancy  fee." 

         44.    On  or about March 21,2005,  Universal   Leaf Africa directed that Universal's 

 Belgian subsidiary pay $50,000 to the brother  of an official in Mozambique's  Ministry of 

 Agriculture and Fisheries.  The payment was recorded as a "commission  for broker's  fees for 

 trade" and made to enable the Company's  Mozambican  subsidiary  to avoid incurring    an export 

 tax that it otherwise would have incurred for shipping unprocessed  tobacco out  of Mozambique . 

.. TheMozambican subsidiary shipped   its unprocessed tobacco and avoided   the export tax .. 

         45.    From approximately October 2005 through July 2006, Universal  Leaf Africa 

 made a series of payments totaling $86,830 from its own account and the account    of the 

 Mozambican subsidiary to secure a land concession  giving the subsidiary exclusive rights to 

 purchase tobacco from growers on that land for the 2006 growing  season.    At the direction of its 

 then regional director, Universal Leaf Africa made cash payments  to a Governor  in 

 Mozambique; and gave gifts including supplies for a bathroom renovation,  personal travel  on a 

 Company jet, and cash payments to officials in Mozambique,  including in its Ministry   of 

 Agriculture and Fisheries.  Universal netted approximately  $457,260  in profits  in 2007 as a result 

 of acquiring and selling tobacco grown on the land.  The payments  were variously recorded in 

                                                 13
 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

 the subsidiaries'  books and records as, among other things, "travel advances,"  and cash
 

 disbursements.
 

         46.    Between approximately June 2005 and September 2007, Universal      Leaf Africa 

 forgave a debt and directed an additional series ofpayments from its own accounts and the 

 account of the Mozambican subsidiary totaling $19,061.  The debt forgiveness and payments 

 were provided to Mozambican government officials and their family  members  in exchange for 

 continued business favor. 

                               c. Payments to Malawian Officials 

        47.     Between approximately  October 2002 and November 2003, Universal      Leaf Africa 

 made payments totaling $500,000 to one high-ranking  Malawian  government official; $250,000 

 to a second high-ranking government official; and $100,000 to a political opposition leader. 

                    D.  Books and Records and Internal Controls Violations 

                         Payments  to Government  Officials in Thailand 

        48.     Between 2000 and 2004, Universal's  sales contracts from ULTL and Uto1co to 

. theTTMtotalcdapproximately$1l,421,794,inexchange         for which Universal,  through its . 

 subsidiaries'  commission agent, paid the TTM $797,800 in kickbacks.  Universal made those 

 payments under circumstances in which the Company lacked adequate internal controls to ensure 

 that such payments were not being transmitted to government officials at the TTM in order to 

 obtain or retain business in Thailand. 

        49.     Universal's  books and records indicate that the payments to the commission agent 

 for "special expenses," as well as for flights, tourism  and cash in the form of"pocket money" 

 were improperly recorded as "commissions  paid" related  to its tobacco sales to the TTM. 

 Universal Leaf, Universal's  U.S. subsidiary, required no supporting  documentation beyond 

 ULTL's  request for payment in order to process the payments from LATCO. 

                                                14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

                      Payments  to Government   Officials in Mozambique 
                                                                                  /' 
       50.    From approximately March 2004 through  September 2007, Universal's 

subsidiaries made payments to Mozambican  government officials and members     oftheir families 

under circumstances in which the Company failed to have and:maintain adequate internal 

controls to ensure that such payments were not being made in order to obtain or retain business 

in Mozambique. 

       51.    Universal's  books and records indicate that the payments to the Mozambican 

officials were variously and improperly recorded as, among other things, ··commissions," 

··consultancy fees" and ··travel advances." Universal  required no supporting documentation 

beyond Universal Leaf Africa's  request for the payments made through its Belgian and African 

subsidiaries, and had no effective controls ensuring that payments  made out ofUniversal Leaf 

Africa were proper. 

                         Payments  to Government  Officials in Malawi 

       52.    Between October 2002 and November  2003, Universal subsidiaries made 

paymentstotaling$8;50,OOO  to three Malawian  gqvemm~nt,officialsJrom    an account held byits  '" 

Belgian subsidiary.  These payments were variously  and improperly recorded  as ··fee for 

service," ·'commission for brokers [sic] fees," "expenses... relating to Malawi tobacco 

purchasing requirements,"  and "donations made to the Malawi government."  The Company had 

no effective controls ensuring that payments to these government  officials were proper. 

                                   CLAIMS    FOR   RELIEF 

                                       FIRST CLAIM 

                       Violations  of Section 30A of the Exchange  Act 

       53.    Paragraphs 1 through 52 are re-alleged  and incorporated by reference. 

       54.	   As described above, Universal through its officers,  agents, and certain of its 

                                              15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

  subsidiaries,  corruptly offered, promised  to pay, or authorized payments to a person, while 

  knowing that all or a portion of those payments  would be corruptly  offered, given, or promised, 

  directly or indirectly,  to foreign officials for the purposes ofinfluencing their  acts or decisions  in 

  their official capacity, inducing them to do or omit to do actions in violation of their official 

  duties, securing an improper advantage,  or inducing  such foreign  officials to use their influence 

  with a foreign government  or an instrumentality  thereof to assist Universal in obtaining or 

  retaining business. 

         55.     By  reason of the foregoing, Universal  violated, and unless enjoined will continue 

  to violate,  Section 30A ofthe Exchange  Act [15 U.S.C. §78dd-l]. 

                                          SECOND     CLAIM
 

                       Violations  of Section  13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange    Act
 

         56.      Paragraphs  1 through  52 are re-alleged  and incorporated by reference. 

         57.    .As described above, Universal through  its officers,  agents, and subsidiaries,  failed 

 to make  and  keep pooks, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable  detail, accurately  and  fairly 

.  reflected its trans~ctions,and:dispositions ofits assets.·  . ., 

         58.     By reason  of the foregoing, Universal violated Section 13(b)(2)(A)   of the
 

 Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  §78m(b)(2)(A)].
 

                                          . THIRD   CLAIM
 

                       Violations  of Section  13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange   Act
 

         59.     Paragraphs  1 through  52 are re-alleged  and incorporated by reference. 

         60.     As described above, Universal and certain   of its United States  and foreign 

 subsidiaries  failed to devise and maintairi a system ofinternal accounting  controls sufficient to 

 provide reasonable  assurances that: (i) payments  were made   in accordance  with management's 

 general  or specific authorization;  and (ii) payments were recorded  as necessary  to penni,t 

                                                   16 
---------------------Page 17---------------------

preparation offinancial  statements in conformity  with generally  accepted accounting principles 

or any other criteria applicable to such statements,  and to maintain  accountability  for its assets. 

       61.     By reason of the foregoing,  Universal  violated  Section 13(b)(2)(B) ofthe 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  §78m(b)(2)(B»). 

                                   PRAYER     FOR   RELIEF 

       WHEREFORE,  the Commission  respectfully  requests that this Court enter a judgment: 

       A.     Permanently  enjoining  Universal from violating  Sections 30A,'13(b)(2)(A),  and 

13(b)(2)(B) ofthe Exchange  Act  [15 U.S.c. §§ 78dd-l;  78m(b)(2)(A)  and 78m(b)(2)(A)  (B)]; 

       B.      Ordering Universal to disgorge ill-gotten gains, with prejudgment  interest, 

wrongfully  obtained as a result ofits illegal conduct;  and 

       C.     Granting such further relief as this Court 'may deem just and appropriate. 

Dated:  August 6, 2010                      Respectfully  submitted, 
                                                                    -­
                                             ~,W~                            .... 
      "" ....                               Erica Y~:'   iams-(BarNo.464518)       -­­
                                            Christopher  R: Conte (Bar No. 419774)
 
                                            Charles E. Cain (Bar No. 461527)
 
                                            Christine E. Neal
 
                                            Amybeth  Garcia-Bokor  (Bar No. 453279)
 
                                            Uta  von Eckartsberg
 

                                            Attorneys for Plaintiff
 
                                           - U.S. Securities and Exchange  Commission 
                                            100 -F Street, N.E.              ­
                                            Washington,  D.C. 20549-4631 
                                            (202) 551-4450 (Williams) 
                                            (202) 772-9246 (facsimile) 

                                               17
 
