---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED STATES  DISTRICT  COURT 

                          FOR   THE   DISTRICT    OF  COLUMBIA 


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE  COMMISSION, 

100 F Street, N .E. 

Washington, DC 20549, 


              Plaintiff, 
                                                        Civil Action No. 

       vs. 

TYCO INTERNATIONAL  LTD., 
                             COMPLAINT 

Freier Platz 10 

CH-8200 Schaffhausen 

Switzerland, 


              Defendant. 

       Plaintiff Securities and  Exchange Commission ("SEC"  or "Commission")  alleges: 

                                NATURE     OF  THE  ACTION 

       1.     This matter concerns violations by Tyco International  Ltd. ("Tyco") ofthe books 

and records, internal controls, and anti-bribery provisions ofthe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 

("FCP A"). 

       2.     Tyco is an international global manufacturing company  based in Switzerland with 

operations around the world.  Tyco's  securities are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 

       3.     In April 2006, the Commission filed a settled accounting fraud, disclosure, and 

FCP A injunctive action against Tyco, pursuant  to which the company consented to entry of a 

final judgment  enjoining it from violations of the anti-fraud, periodic reporting, books and 

records, internal controls, proxy disclosure, and anti-bribery provisions ofthe federal securities 

laws and ordering it to pay $1 in disgorgement  and a $50 million civil penalty.  The U.S. District 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

Court for the Southern District ofNew York entered the settled Final Judgment against Tyco on 

May  1, 2006.  At the time ofsettlement, Tyco had already committed to and commenced  a 

review of its FCP A compliance and a global, comprehensive internal investigation   of possible 

additional FCP A violations.  As a result ofthat review and investigation,  certain FCP A 

violations have come to light for which the misconduct occurred,  or the benefit to Tyco 

continued, after the 2006 injunction.  Those are the violations that are alleged in this Complaint. 

       4.      As its global review and investigation progressed, Tyco voluntarily disclosed this 

conduct to the Commission and took significant, broad-spectrum remedial measures.  Those 

remedial measures include:  the initial FCP A review of every Tyco legal operating  entity­

ultimately including 454 entities in 50 separate countries; active monitoring  and evaluation of all 

ofTyco's  agents and other relevant third-party relationships; quarterly ethics and compliance 

training by over 4,000 middle-managers;  FCPA-focused on-site reviews     ofhigher risk entities; 

creation ofa corporate Ombudsman's  office and numerous segment-specific  compliance  counsel 

positions; exit from several business operations in high-risk areas; and the termination ofover 90 

employees, including supervisors, because ofFCPA-compliance  concerns. 

       5.      The FCPA misconduct reported by Tyco showed that Tyco's  books and records 

were misstated as a result ofat least twelve different, post-injunction  illicit payment schemes 

occurring at Tyco subsidiaries across the globe.  The schemes frequently entailed illicit payments 

to foreign officials that were inaccurately recorded so as to conceal the nature ofthe payments. 

Those inaccurate entries were incorporated into Tyco' s books and records.  Tyco thereby 

violated Section 13(b )(2)(A) ofthe Securities Exchange Act  of 1934 ("Exchange  Act") [  15 

U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(A)]. 

                                                2 

---------------------Page 3---------------------

       6.      Tyco also failed to devise and maintain internal controls sufficient to provide 

reasonable assurances that all transactions were properly recorded in the company's  books, 

records, and accounts.  Tyco thereby violated Section 13(b )(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [  15 

U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)].  As reflected in this Complaint, numerous Tyco subsidiaries engaged in 

violative conduct, the conduct was carried out by  several different methods, and the conduct 

occurred over a lengthy period  oftime and continued even after the 2006 injunction. 

       7.      Through one   of the illicit payment schemes, Tyco violated the FCP A anti-bribery 

provisions.  Specifically, through the acts ofits then-subsidiary and agent, TE Ml A-COM, Inc., 

Tyco violated Section 30A(a)   of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   § 78dd-l(a)] by corruptly making 

illicit payments to foreign government officials to obtain or retain business. 

                                JURISDICTION        AND   VENUE 

       8.      The Commission  brings this action pursuant to Sections   21 (d), 21 (e), and 27 of 

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), 78aa].  Tyco, directly or indirectly, made use of 

means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce,  of the mails, or ofthe facilities ofa national 

securities exchange in connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business 

alleged in this Complaint. 

       9.      Venue is proper in this Court pursuant  to Section 27 of the Exchange Act [  15 

U.S.C. § 78aa] or 28 U.S.C.  § 139l(d). 

                                          DEFENDANT 

       I 0.    Tyco is incorporated  in Switzerland and has its principal place of business in 

Switzerland.  It issues and maintains a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of 

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   § 781] that trades on the New York Stock Exchange.     It is required 

                                                 3 

---------------------Page 4---------------------

to file periodic reports with the Commission under Section 13 .of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 

78m]. 

                                   RELATED      ENTITIES 

       11.    At all times relevant, TE MIA-COM, Inc. ("MIA-COM") was  an indirect, wholly 

owned subsidiary ofTyco   incorporated in Florida with its principal place ofbusiness in Lowell, 

Massachusetts.  MlA-COM operated within the Electronics segment    ofTyco   until the split of 

Tyco and Tyco Electronics Ltd. ("TE") in or about June 2007, when it became a unit ofTE.   TE 

divested all ofthe assets ofM/A-COM  in or about 2008. 

       12.    At all times relevant, Tyco Thermal Controls (Huzhou) Co., Ltd. ("TTC 

Huzhou") and Tyco Thermal Controls (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.   ("TIC   Shanghai") were indirect, 

wholly owned subsidiaries ofTyco   incorporated in China. TIC  Huzhou was formed in or about 

October 2003, when Tyco acquired a company that manufactured electrical cables.  Because 

TIC  Huzhou did not have its own sales or marketing staff, TIC Shanghai was largely 

responsible for sales ofTTC Huzhou's  products.  (Collectively, these entities are referred to as 

"TIC  China.") 

       13.    At all times relevant, Tyco Waterworks Deutschland GmBH ("TWW Germany") 

was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary ofTyco  incorporated in Germany.  TWW Germany 

manufactured, marketed, and sold industrial valves for the water, gas, sewage, chemical, and 

processing industries.  These products were sold worldwide through a network of sales 

representatives.  Customers included government entities, such as municipal waterworks, and 

private contractors.  Tyco divested  itself ofTWW Germany in or about 2010. 

       14.    At all times relevant, Tyco Fire & Integrated Solutions France (''TFIS France") 

was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary ofTyco  that was incorporated in France.  TFIS France 

                                               4 

---------------------Page 5---------------------

sold fire extinguishing  and detection  products to residential customers and commercial 

businesses. 

       15.     At all times relevant, Tyco Flow Control Hong Kong Limited ("TFC HK") and 

Beijing Valve Co. Ltd. ("Keystone")  were indirect, wholly owned subsidiaries  ofTyco   that were 

incorporated under the laws of Hong Kong and China, respectively.  TFC HK and Keystone sold 

valves and controls products to commercial and government customers through direct sales and 

local distributors. 

       16.     At all times relevant, ADT Sensormatic Thailand Ltd. ("ADT Thailand")  was an 

indirect, wholly owned subsidiary  ofTyco that was incorporated in Thailand.  ADT Thailand 

designed, installed, and serviced mechanical, electrical, fire protection, security, and traffic 

systems in Southeast Asia. 

       17.     At all times relevant, Tyco Fire, Security & Services Malaysia SDN BHD ("TFS 

Malaysia") was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary   ofTyco  that was incorporated in Malaysia. 

TFS Malaysia designed,  installed, serviced, and commissioned mechanical,  electrical, fire 

protection, security, and traffic systems in Malaysia. 

       18.     At all times relevant, Tyco Fire & Integrated Solutions (UK) Ltd. ("TFIS UK") 

was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary  ofTyco   that was incorporated in the United Kingdom 

and headquartered  in Manchester,  England.  TFIS UK provided fire detection and suppression 

systems for power generation and transmission plants. 

       19.     At all times relevant, Tyco Healthcare International Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 

("THC China") was an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary    ofTyco   that was incorporated in 

China.  THC China operated within the Healthcare segment    ofTyco   until the split ofTyco and 

                                                5 

---------------------Page 6---------------------

Covidien Public Limited Company ("Covidien")  in or about June 2007, when it became a unit    of 

Covidien. 

       20.    At all times relevant, Tyco Healthcare Saudi Arabia ("THC Saudi Arabia") was 

an operational entity within Tyco Healthcare AG, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary  ofTyco 

that was incorporated  in Switzerland.  THC Saudi Arabia operated within the Healthcare 

segment ofTyco   until the split ofTyco and Covidien in or about June 2007, when it became a 

unit ofCovidien. 

       21.    At  all times relevant, Tyco  Healthcare Polska Sp.z.o.o. ("THC Polska") was an 

indirect, wholly owned subsidiary ofTyco   that was incorporated in Poland.  THC Polska 

operated within the Healthcare segment  ofTyco  until the split ofTyco and Covidien in or about 

June 2007, when it became a unit  ofCovidien. 

                                  STATEMENT       OF  FACTS 

       22.    Tyco is a diversified  global manufacturing company with operations  around the 

world.  Starting in or about 1998 and continuing through  at least 2009, the business ofTyco and 

its subsidiaries took place in, among others, the People's  Republic ofChina, India, Thailand, 

Croatia, Serbia, Saudi Arabia, Libya, Syria, the United Arab Emirates, Mauritania, the Congo, 

Niger, Madagascar, Turkey, Poland, Malaysia, and Egypt. 

               M/A-COM-     Turkey 

       23.    MIA-COM,     through its SIGINT Products business unit, retained a New York 

City-based sales agent who made illicit payments in connection with a September 2006 sale   of 

microwave equipment to an instrumentality   ofthe Turkish government.  The agent, who was 

contractually designated as M/A-COM's  sales agent for Turkey, sold the equipment to the entity 

controlled by Turkey at a mark-up over the M/ A-COM invoice price.  The microwave receivers 

                                               6 

---------------------Page 7---------------------

were shipped from Hunt Valley, Maryland to the agent in New York, who then shipped them to 

Turkey via New York, New York. 

       24.    Employees   of MIA-COM were aware that the agent was paying foreign 

government customers to obtain orders.  One internal e-mail stated, "Hell, everyone knows you 

have to bribe somebody to do business in Turkey.  Nevertheless, I'll play it dumb if [M/A­

COM's agent] should call." 

       25.    Tyco exerted control over M/A-COM in part     by utilizing dual roles for its 

officers.  At the time ofthe September 2006 transaction, four high-level Tyco officers were also 

officers ofM/A-COM,  including one who was M/A-COM's  president.  Additionally, one      of 

those Tyco officers served as one of five members ofM/A-COM's      board of directors.  While 

there is no indication that any ofthese individuals knew ofthe illegal conduct described herein, 

through the corporate structure used to hold M/ A-COM and through the dual roles  of these 

officers, Tyco controlled M/A-COM.  As a result, M/A-COM was Tyco's  agent for purposes      of 

the September 2006 transaction, and the transaction was squarely within the scope ofM/A­

COM's  agency. 

       26.    The benefit obtained by Tyco   as a result ofthe September 2006 deal was $44,513. 

       TTC  China-   Ministry of Public Security 

       27.    In or about June 2005, TTC China signed a contract with the Chinese Ministry   of 

Public Security for $770,000, but reportedly paid approximately $3,700 to the "site project team" 

ofa state-owned corporation to obtain the contract.  This amount was improperly recorded in 

TTC China's  books and records as a commission, when in fact part  of that amount was passed 

along to the end-user.  TTC China's  financial results were incorporated in Tyco's  publicly filed 

financial statements.  Tyco' s benefit as a result of these illicit payments was $192,500. 

                                               7 

---------------------Page 8---------------------

       TWWGennany 

       28.     TWW    Germany and/or its agents failed to enact and/or follow policies governing 

the retention and payment  ofthird-party agents/distributors. 

       29.     TWW Germany and/or its agents paid     or promised to pay third parties  to secure 

contracts or avoid penalties or fines in several countries:  the People's  Republic ofChina, 

Croatia, India, Libya, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Syria, and the United Arab Emirates.  The payments 

were ostensibly booked as commissions and in a manner that did not reflect the ultimate 

recipients ofthe funds.  The payments related to projects ongoing from October 2004 to 2009. 

In fact the payments were not commissions, but were used to pay employees     of government 

customers and for other purposes.  These entries were consolidated within Tyco and, as a result, 

caused Tyco's  books and records to be misstated.  Tyco's  benefit as a result ofthese illicit 

payments was $4,684,966. 

       TFIS France 

       30.     TFIS France and/or its agents made payments to individuals  from 2005 to 2009 

for "business introduction services."  One of the individuals receiving payments was a security 

officer at a government-owned  mining company in Mauritania, and a substantial  amount    of the 

payments made before 2007 ultimately were deposited in that government official's  personal 

bank account in France.  These payments were not supported by written contracts or invoices and 

were not accurately recorded  in TFIS France's  books and records.  In addition, TFIS France 

and/or its agents paid sham "commissions"   to approximately twelve other intermediaries  in four 

countries (Mauritania, the Congo, Niger, and Madagascar).  The inaccurate entries were 

incorporated into Tyco' s books and records.  Tyco' s benefit as a result of these illicit payments 

was $1,256,389. 

                                                8 

---------------------Page 9---------------------

       TFC HK and Keystone - China 

       31.    TFC   HK  and Keystone failed to follow Tyco's  internal control policies and 

procedures governing the retention and payment   ofthird-party agents/distributors.  TFC HK and 

Keystone also failed to maintain an appropriate system  to ensure accuracy in its books and 

records regarding payments to sales agents and distributors. 

       32.    Between 2005 and August 2006, THC HK and Keystone paid approximately 

$246,000 to an agent in connection with sales to a large, government-owned  Chinese 

petrochemical company, although Tyco is unable to ascertain what,   if any, legitimate services 

were performed  by the agent.  As a result, Tyco's  books and records were misstated.  Tyco's 

benefit as a result ofthese illicit payments was $181,504. 

       33.    TFC HK and Keystone also had other improper arrangements with agents. 

Approximately $13 7,000 was paid to agencies owned by approximately eight Keystone sales 

employees in 2005 and 2006, and those employees in tum transferred some portion     ofthat 

amount in cash or gifts to government officials, including design institutes, in the People's 

Republic of China.  The amounts in question were incorrectly recorded as proper commissions  to 

hide the fact that the payments  were made to companies owned   by Keystone employees.  As a 

result, Tyco's  books and records were misstated.  Tyco's  benefit as a result ofthese illicit 

payments was $196,584. 

       ADT Thailand - CCTV 

       34.     From in or about 2000 to in or about 2006, ADT Thailand maintained inaccurate 

books and records in connection with multiple transactions and failed to implement policies to 

ensure accurate record-keeping. 

                                                9 

---------------------Page 10---------------------

       35.     In connection with a contract to install a CCTV system in the Thai Parliament 

House in 2006, ADT Thailand paid over $50,000 to a Thai entity that acted as a consultant.  The 

invoice related to this payment refers to "renovation work," but Tyco is unable to ascertain what, 

ifany, work was done.  As a result, Tyco' s books and records were misstated.  Tyco' s benefit as 

a result ofthese illicit payments was $1 04,117. 

       TFS Malaysia 

       36.     From 2000 to 2007, TFS Malaysia used intermediaries  to pay the employees     ofits 

customers when bidding on contracts.  Payments were made to approximately  twenty-six 

employees  of customers, and one  of those payees was an employee   of a government-controlled 

entity.  TFS Malaysia inaccurately described these expenses as "commissions"  and failed to 

maintain policies sufficient to prohibit such payments.  As a result, Tyco' s books and records 

were misstated.  Tyco' s benefit as a result of these illicit payments was $45,972. 

       TFIS UK - Egypt 

       37.     From in or about 2004  to in or about 2008, an Egyptian agent ofTFIS   UK wired 

approximately $282,022 to a former employee's  personal bank account with the understanding 

that the money would  be used in connection with entertainment expenses for representatives   ofa 

company majority-owned  by the Egyptian government.  A portion     of the funds was used to pay 

for lodging, meals, transportation,  spending money, and entertainment  expenses for that 

company's  officials on two trips to the United Kingdom in 2005 and 2006 and two trips to the 

United States in 2007 and 2008. 

       38.     TFIS UK made payments pursuant  to inflated invoices submitted by the 

company's  Egyptian agent, who wired funds   to the former employees to  be used to entertain 

foreign officials. 

                                                10 

---------------------Page 11---------------------

       39.    TFIS  UK's  books and records did not accurately reflect TFIS  UK's  understanding 

that the funds would be used for entertainment of government officials, and TFIS UK did not 

maintain sufficient internal controls over its payments to agents.  As a result, Tyco' s books and 

records were misstated. 

       40.     Tyco's  benefit as a result ofthese illicit payments was $1,589,374. 


       THC Saudi Arabia 


       41.     Beginning in or about December 2000 and continuing into at least June 2006, 

THC Saudi Arabia's  distributor in Saudi Arabia used a "control account" to make payments at 

THC Saudi Arabia's  direction to doctors and hospital officials in Saudi Arabia, including  those 

employed  by agencies or instrumentalities of the Saudi government.  The control account was 

not a bank account, but rather a general ledger account. 

       42.     While some disbursements from the control account were used for legitimate 

expenses, several items were booked improperly as "promotional expenses" and "sales 

development" expenses.  As a result, Tyco  's books and records were misstated.  In connection 

with the transactions related to these inaccurate books and records, Tyco's  benefit was 

approximately  $1 ,900,600. 

       THC China 

       43.     From in or about September 2004 to in or about January 2007, employees    ofTHC 

China submitted approximately 33 expense claims related to entertainment   of public health care 

officials ofthe People's  Republic ofChina.  THC China then reimbursed those expenses.  Some 

ofthe expenses were supported by fictitious receipts, including references to a non-existent 

company.   In connection with the expenses, at least one THC China employee forged receipts 

                                                II 

---------------------Page 12---------------------

and applied a "seal" for a bogus company.  Employees forged receipts because the actual 

expenditures were prohibited under Tyco' s internal guidelines. 

       44.     From 2001 to 2008, THC China employees submitted false itineraries and other 

documentation that did not properly identify travel expenses incurred in connection with medical 

conferences.  The inaccurate recordkeeping related to payment  by THC China for trips or 

portions oftrips for publicly employed doctors in the People's  Republic.  As a result, Tyco's 

books and records were misstated. 

       45.     In connection with the transactions related to these inaccurate books and records, 

Tyco's benefit was approximately $353,800. 

       THC Polska 

       46.     From in or about January 2005 to in or about December 2007, THC Polska used 

"service contracts" to hire public healthcare professionals in Poland for various purposes, 

including conducting training sessions, performing clinical studies, and distributing marketing 

materials.  Approximately five such service contracts involved falsified records and 

approximately twenty-six other service contracts involved incomplete and inaccurate records, 

including some related expenses paid by THC Polska to family members ofhealthcare 

professionals.  As a result, Tyco' s books and records were misstated. In connection with the 

transactions related to these inaccurate books and records, Tyco' s benefit was approximately 

$14,673. 

                                  FIRST   CLAIM     FOR   RELIEF 


                                          Foreign  Bribery 


             [Violations of Section 30A(a) of the Exchange Act,  15 U.S.C.  § 78dd-1(a)] 


       47.     Paragraphs 1 through 46 are re-alleged and incorporated  by reference. 

                                                12 

---------------------Page 13---------------------

       48.     As described above, Tyco, through its officers, employees,  and agents, corruptly 

offered, promised to pay, or authorized payments to one or more persons, while knowing that all 

or a portion ofthose payments would    be offered, given, or promised, directly or indirectly, to 

foreign officials for the purpose of influencing their acts or decisions in their official capacity, 

inducing them to do  or omit to do actions in violation oftheir official duties, securing an 

improper advantage, or inducing such foreign officials to use their influence with foreign 

governments  or instrumentalities  thereof to assist Tyco in obtaining or retaining business. 

       49.     By  reason of the foregoing, Tyco violated, and unless enjoined will continue to 

violate, Section 30A(a) of the Exchange Act. 

                                SECOND     CLAIM    FOR   RELIEF 

                                       Books   and Records 

                     [Violations of Section 13(b )(2)(A) of the Exchange Act, 
                                    15 U.S.C.  § 78m(b)(2)(A)] 

       50.     Paragraphs  1 through  46 are re-alleged and incorporated  by reference. 

       51.     The Exchange Act requires each issuer    of registered securities to make and keep 

books, records, and accounts which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 

business of the issuer. 

       52.     As described above, Tyco, through its officers, employees, and agents, failed to 

keep books, records, and accounts, which, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflected its 

transactions and dispositions of its assets. 

       53.     By reason  of the foregoing, Tyco violated Section  13(b)(2)(A)  of the Exchange 

Act. 

                                                 13 

---------------------Page 14---------------------

                                THIRD  CLAIM      FOR   RELIEF 


                                       Internal  Controls 


                    [Violations of Section 13(b )(2)(Bi ofthe Exchange Act, 

                                   15 U.S.C.  § 78m(b)(2)(B)] 

       54.     Paragraphs  1 through 46 are re-alleged and incorporated by reference. 

       55.     The Exchange Act requires each issuer  of registered securities to devise and 

maintain a system of internal controls sufficient to provide reasonable assurances that, among 

other things, transactions  are recorded as necessary to permit preparation offinancial statements 

and to maintain accountability  for assets. 

       56.     Tyco failed to devise and maintain such a system  ofinternal controls and was 

therefore unable to detect the violations set forth above.  As described above, numerous Tyco 

subsidiaries engaged in violative conduct, the conduct was carried out by several different 

methods, the conduct occurred over a lengthy period  of time, and it continued even  after the 

2006 injunction. 

       57.     By reason  ofthe foregoing, Tyco violated Section 13(b )(2)(B) of the Exchange 

Act. 

                                    PRAYER FOR       RELIEF 

       WHEREFORE,  the Commission respectfully  requests that this Court enter judgment: 

           a) 	permanently  enjoining Defendant Tyco from violating Sections 30A(a), 

               13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 78dd-1(a), 

               78m(b)(2)(A),  and 78m(b)(2)(B)]; 

           b) 	 ordering Defendant Tyco to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully obtained as a 

               result of its illegal conduct in the amount of$1 0,564,992 and prejudgment  interest 

               thereon in the amount of $2,566,517; and 

                                                14 

---------------------Page 15---------------------

          c)  granting such other relief as this Court may deem just and appropriate. 

Dated: September 24, 2012 

                                            Respectfully Submitted, 

                                        ~~                                ~ 

                                            David Frohlich (DC Bar No. 425928) 
                                            Matthew B. Greiner (DC Bar No. 448480) 
                                            Stephen E. Jones (DC Bar No. 431164) 
                                            BrentS.  Mitchell (DC Bar No. 464083) 

                                            Attorneys for Plaintiff 
                                            Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                            100 F Street, N.E. 
                                            Washington , D.C. 20549-4030 
                                            Telephone: (202) 55 1-4526 (Greiner) 
                                            Facsimile:  (202) 772-9286 

                                          15 

