---------------------Page 1---------------------

                        UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT  
                        FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION 

                           Plaintiff, 
                                                      Civil Action No. 

ROBERT ALLEN DIEHL, 

                           Defendant. 

                                     COMPLAINT 

      Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission ("Commission") alleges: 

                                      SUMMARY 

       1.    In September 2003, Defendant Robert Diehl ("Diehl"), in his capacity as 

President of Microstar, Inc. ("MicroStaryy), a privately-owned software provider, purportedly 

"purchased" three software licenses fiom Quovadx, Inc. ("Quovadx"), a Colorado-based 

software company. In fact, these purported sales were part of a parking arrangement designed to 

accelerate revenue recognition for Quovadx. Diehl engaged in these transactions knowing that 

they were part of an attempt by Quovadx to accelerate revenue recognition. He knew that his 

company had neither the ability nor the intent to pay for the licenses unless and until Quovadx 

found customers to buy the licenses. Quovadx fraudulently recognized approximately $380,000 

in software licensing revenue from these purported sales in the third quarter of 2003. 

      2.     By his conduct, Diehl aided and abetted Quovadx's violations of the antiftaud and 

reporting provisions of the federal securities laws.  The Commission seeks an order permanently 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

enjoining Diehl from further securities laws violations and imposing civil monetary penalties 

against lum. 

                                     JURISDICTION 

       3.     This Court has jurisdiction pursuant to Sections 21 and 27 of the Securities 

Exchange Act of 1934 ("Exchange Act") [15 U.S.C.  $8 78u and 78aal. 

       4.     Diehl, directly or indirectly, made use of the means or instrumentalities of 

interstate commerce, or of the mails, in connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and 

courses of business described in this Complaint, certain of which have occurred within this 

judicial district. 

                                    THE DEFENDANT 

       5.     Robert Diehl, age 56, resides in Cincinnati, Ohio. He has been president of 

MicroStar since he founded the company in 2002. MicroStar is an information technology 

company specializing in healthcare software programming services. Diehl is the company's sole 

stockholder. 

                                   RELATED ENTITY 

       6.     Quovadx, a Delaware corporation based in Englewood, Colorado, is a software 

company that licenses software and sells related services to the health care industry. Quovadx's 

stock was registered with the Commission under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act and traded 

on the NASDAQ National Market. During 2002 and 2003, Quovadx derived about one-third of 

its reported revenue from software licensing fees with the rest coming fkom software 

maintenance and service contracts. Quovadx separately reported its. software licensing revenue, 

which included sales of both software and licenses. 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                       RELEVANT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS  

       7.     Public companies such as Quovadx are required to file their quarterly and annual 

reports with the Commission that present their financial results in conformity with Generally 

Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"). The American Institute of Certified Public 

Accountants' Statement of Position 97-2, Software Revenue Recognition ("SOP 97-2") and 

related interpretations are the principal GAAP provisions governing the recognition of revenue 

for sales of software and software licenses. 

       8.     Under SOP 97-2, a company may not recognize revenue from a software license 

sale unless and until there is: persuasive evidence of an arrangement; delivery of the software; a 

fixed or determinable seller's fee; and a reasonable probability of collecting the accounts 

receivable. Further, if payment is substantially contingent on the buyer's success in distributing 

the product to the customer, either due to the terms of the deal or because the buyer is so 

undercapitalized that it cannot pay until it sells the product, the seller may not recognize the 

software license revenue at the time of sale. In its financial reports filed with the Commission, 

Quovadx claimed that it had recognized revenue in accordance with GAAP. 

                               FACTUAL ALLEGATIONS 

       9.     Diehl's first transaction with Quovadx occurred in July 2003, when Microstar 

purchased software from Quovadx and resold it to a healthcare provider. There were no further 

transactions with Quovadx until late September 2003. At that time, Quovadx had been unable to 

finalize sales to several customers before the end of the third quarter. Therefore, Quovadx 

contacted Diehl and asked him if he would be willing to take software in the third quarter if 

Quovadx would deliver purchasers to him in the fourth quarter. 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

       10.    Diehl agreed to the parking arrangement knowing that he was adding no 

economic substance to the deal. In fact, Diehl understood that the sole purpose of the transaction 

was to accommodate Quovadx's revenue goals by accelerating anticipated revenue into the third 

quarter. Diehl understood that all he was doing was bbpassing paper." He agreed to hold the 

inventory and upon Quovadx's instructions, take purchase orders from Quovadx's customers and 

ship the merchandise and, in return, MicroStar would receive a twenty-percent share of the 

purchase price. Diehl and Quovadx reached a verbal side-agreement to the effect that Quovadx 

would not get paid unless and until Quovadx delivered customers who would buy the software 

licenses. The written sales contracts between the parties did not disclose this verbal side- 

agreement. 

       11.    Quovadx treated these contracts as bona fide sales agreements and shipped the 

software at the end of the third quarter of 2003.  Quovadx also recorded approximately $380,000 

in revenue in the thrd  quarter based on these contracts. Quovadx issued a preliminary earnings 

release and a quarterly report for the third quarter of 2003 that included the revenue from this 

parking arrangement. 

       12.    By late November 2003, Quovadx had not delivered any of the promised 

customers. Therefore, consistent with the verbal side-agreement, Quovadx received no payments 

from MicroStar even though payments were due.  Quovadx, for its part, did not demand payment 

from Microstar but instead searched for alternate customers who would purchase the parked 

software. 

       13.    In December 2003, one of the three anticipated customers purchased dzferent 

software licenses for approximately $257,000 from a Quovadx subsidiary in the United 

Kingdom.  In February 2004, when the customer made payment to Quovadx's U.K. subsidiary, 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

Quovadx coordinated with Diehl to wire the payment to him with the instruction that he would 

wire the payment back to Quovadx, less $10,000 as compensation for having held the licenses 

for Quovadx. Diehl agreed to Quovadx's plan and executed his part, keeping the $10,000. Diehl 

understood that by channeling the payment in this manner, Quovadx created the false appearance 

that Quovadx received payment from MicroStar for a significant portion of what MicroStar 

owed. Diehl never resold the software he received from Quovadx and Quovadx never asked for 

it back. 

                              FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
 Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.  9 78j(b)],  
                    and Rule lob-5 thereunder [17 C.F.R.   § 240.1013-51  

       14.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 13 above. 

       15.    Section lo@) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder prohibit materially 

false or misleading statements or omissions made in connection with the purchase or sale of 

securities. A person violates these provisions by knowingly or recklessly making material 

misstatements or omitting to state material information in Commission filings or in other statements 

disseminated to investors. 

       16.    Quovadx fraudulently recognized approximately $380,000 of revenue on the 

MicroStar transactions. As a result, Quovadx violated Section lo@) and Rule lob-5 thereunder. 

By entering into the parking arrangement with Quovadx and participating in Quovadx's plan to 

channel an unrelated payment to make it appear that MicroStar had paid for part of what it "owed" 

Quovadx, Diehl knowingly provided substantial assistance to Quovadx in its fiaud. 

       17.    By reason of the foregoing, Diehl aided and abetted Quovadx's violation of 

Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule lob-5 thereunder. 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

                             SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF  
            Aiding and Abetting Violations of Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act  
                  [15 U.S.C. §78m(a)] and Rules 12b-20,13a-11 and 13a-13  
                        [17 C.F.R §§240.12b-20,13a-11 and 13a-131  

       18.    The Commission realleges and incorporates herein by reference paragraphs 1 

through 17 above. 

       19.    Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 1 3 a- 1 1 and 1 3 a- 13 thereunder 

require that issuers with securities registered under Section 12 of the Exchange Act, such as 

Quovadx, file periodic reports with the Commission that are complete and accurate in all material 

respects. Exchange Act Rule 12b-20 requires that, in addition to the information expressly required 

to be included in a statement or report, an issuer must add such further material information, if any, 

as may be necessary to make the required statements, in the light of the circumstances under which 

they are made, not misleading. 

       20.    Quovadx materially overstated its software licensing revenue in the third quarter of 

2003 by fraudulently recognizing revenue from the three purported sales of software licenses to 

MicroStar. As a result, Quovadx's quarterly report for the third quarter of 2003, the earnings 

release attached to its Form 8-K for that quarter, and Quovadx's Form 10-K for 2003, contained 

materially inaccurate and misleading statements. As a result, Quovadx violated Section 13(a) of 

the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a- 1 1 and 13a-13. 

       21.    By entering into the fraudulent parlung arrangement and side-agreement with 

Quovadx, and participating in Quovadx's plan to channel an unrelated payment to make it appear 

that MicroStar had paid for part of what it "owed" Quovadx, Diehl knowingly provided 

substantial assistance to Quovadx in its reporting violations. 

       22.    By reason of the foregoing, Diehl aided and abetted Quovadx's violations of 

Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 13a-11 and 13a-13 thereunder. 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

                                 PRAYER FOR RELIEF 

       The Commission respectfully requests that ths  Court enter a final judgment against 

Defendant Diehl: 

       A.     finding that Defendant Diehl committed the violations alleged above; 

       B.     permanently enjoining Defendant Diehl from violating or aiding and abetting 

violations of sections 10(b) and 13(a) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $8 78j@) and 78m(a)] and 

Rules lob-5,12b-20,13a-11 and 13a-13 [17 C.F.R. §§ 240.10b-5,240.12b-20,240.13a-11 and 

240.13a-131 thereunder; 

       C.         ordering Diehl to pay disgorgement in the amount of $10,000, representing the 

illegal gain received for aiding and abetting the fraudulent scheme of Quovadx to accelerate 

revenue recognition, and to pay prejudgment interest thereon in the amount of $962.79; 

       D.     ordering Diehl to pay an appropriate civil penalty pursuant to Section 21 (d)(3) of the 

Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. $8 78(u)(d)(3)]; 

       E.     retaining jurisdiction over this action to implement and carry out the terms of all 

orders and decrees that may be entered; and 

       F.     granting such other and additional relief as this Court deems just and proper. 

                                                                 .r 
                                            Z~IPL                    - 
                                          Richard E. simps& 
                                          Thomas W. ~eirce 

                                          Attorneys for Plaintiff 
                                          Securities and Exchange Commission 
                                          100 F. Street N.E. 
                                          Washington, DC 20549 
                                          (202) 55 1-4492 (Simpson) 
