---------------------Page 1---------------------

                          UNITED  STATES      DISTRICT    COURT 

                          EASTERN     DISTRICT    OF  NEW   YORK 


SECURITIES     AND EXCHANGE 
COMMISSION, 

              Plaintiff,                                 Civil Action No. 

       vs. 

GARTH    RONALD  PETERSON, 

              Defendant. 

                                       COMPLAINT 

       Plaintiff  Securities  and  Exchange  Commission  (the  "Commission"  or  "SEC")  alleges 

that: 

                                        SUMMARY 

       1.     From at least 2004 to 2007, Defendant Garth Peterson, while employed at Morgan 

Stanley & Co., Inc. 's ("Morgan Stanley") real estate investment and fund advisory business, 

secretly acquired millions of dollars worth ofreal estate investments from Morgan Stanley's 

funds for himself, the former Chairman ofY ongye Enterprise (Group) Co. ("Y ongye")-a 

Chinese state-owned entity with influence over the success ofMorgan Stanley's  real estate 

business in Shanghai-and  others.  Peterson also arranged to have paid to himself and the former 

Chairman ofYongye  ("the Chinese Official") at least $1.8 million in what he misrepresented 

were finder's  fees Morgan Stanley's  funds owed to third parties.  In exchange for offers and 

payments from Peterson, the Chinese Official helped Peterson and Morgan Stanley obtain 

business while personally benefitting from some ofthese same investments.  This self-dealing 

and misappropriation by Peterson breached the fiduciary duties he and Morgan Stanley owed to 

their clients. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

       2.      By engaging in the conduct described in this Complaint, Peterson violated the 

anti-bribery and internal controls provisions ofthe Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 

("FCPA")-namely     Sections 13(b)(5) and 30A  of the Securities Exchange Act  of 1934 

("Exchange Act")  [15 U.S.C.  §§ 78m(b)(5) and  78dd-l]-and   aided and abetted violations of the 

anti-fraud provisions ofthe Investment Advisers Act  of 1940 ("Advisers Act")--namely 

Sections 206(1) and 206(2)  [15 U.S.c. §§ 80b-6(1) and 80b-6(2)]. 

       3.      The Commission brings this action against Peterson seeking injunctive reliefto 

prevent future violations ofthe federal securities laws, disgorgement, and a civil penalty. 

                                       JURISDICTION 

       4.      This Court has jurisdiction  over this action under Sections 21(d), 21(e), and 27 of 

the Exchange  Act  [15 U.S.C.  §§ 78u(d), 78u(e), and 78aa] and Section 209(d)   of the Advisers 

Act [15 U.S.C. § 80b-9(d)].  The parties have consented to venue in the Eastern District of New 

York. 

                                         DEFENDANT 

       5.      Defendant Garth Peterson is a U.S. citizen and resident of Singapore who speaks 

Chinese fluently.  Peterson began working for Morgan Stanley in 2002 in Hong Kong.  He was 

made the head  ofthe Shanghai office of Morgan Stanley'S wholly-owned global real estate 

business when that office first opened in 2006 and became a Managing Director   of Morgan 

Stanley in 2007.  Peterson's  principal responsibility at Morgan Stanley was to evaluate, 

negotiate, acquire, manage and sell real estate investments on behalf of Morgan Stanley'S 

advisers and funds.  As such, he owed a fiduciary duty to the fund clients.  By the time he was 

terminated in 2008 in connection with the conduct described in this Complaint, Peterson had 

been involved with at least twenty-eight Morgan Stanley transactions in China. 

                                                2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

                             OTHER PERSONS AND ENTITES 


       6.      Morgan Stanley   & Co. Inc. is a Delaware  corporation with its principal place of 

business in New York, New York.     It owns global asset management,  investment banking and 

securities businesses  with more than 61,000 employees  world-wide.  At all pertinent times, 

Morgan Stanley had a class  of securities registered  pursuant to Section 12(b) ofthe Exchange 

Act [15 U.S.C. § 781(b)], had securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and was subject 

to the reporting requirements of Sections 13 ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 78m]. 

       7.      At all pertinent times, Morgan Stanley in part conducted its real estate investing 

business through wholly-owned  SEC-registered  investment advisers  to, and minority investors 

in, approximately  a half-dozen  investment companies,  aIkIa funds, organized as Delaware 

limited partnerships.  As advisers and general partners to these funds, Morgan Stanley, though its 

employees, raised capital and made and managed real estate investments world-wide,  and owed 

fiduciary duties to their clients.  The funds most pertinent to the conduct described in this 

Complaint are MSREF IV International ("MSREF  IV") and MSREF V International ("MSREF 

V"), which invested in securities ofreal estate companies,  portfolios of real estate and real estate 

loans, and real estate directly.  For each fund, Morgan Stanley formed a wholly-owned  adviser 

that it registered with the SEC with its principal  office and place ofbusiness at a Morgan Stanley 

address in New York, NY, and a website address ofwww.morganstanley.comlrealestate.   The 

adviser for MSREF IV, named MSREF IV, LLC, was registered  November 2000; the adviser for 

MSREF V, named MSREF V, LLC, was registered  January        3,2005.   Many  of the investors in 

Morgan Stanley's  funds, including Morgan Stanley employees,  were    u.S. persons and many 

sales oflimited  partnership  interests in the funds occurred in the u.S. 

       8.      At all pertinent times, Yongye Enterprise  (Group) Co. Ltd. was a large real estate 

                                                3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

development arm   of the Luwan District Government in Shanghai, China.  Since its inception in 

1994, Yongye held leases for many prime areas in the Luwan District.  Yongye's  business was to 

keep or take a small share in real estate joint ventures, including with Morgan Stanley and its 

funds, in exchange for helping its joint venture partner obtain the proper licensing from the local 

government.  Y ongye owned and developed residential and commercial real property, sold and 

brokered real estate to Morgan Stanley and its funds, and partnered with Morgan Stanley and its 

funds in various real estate investments. 

       9.      The Chinese Official was the Chairman    ofYongye    at all pertinent times until his 

retirement  in  September  2006.  As  Chairman,  he  exercised  control  over  Y ongye  and had  the 

authority to make investment  decisions  for it.  Before Yongye,  the Chinese Official worked  for 

the  Luwan District  government.  After  his retirement  in September  2006, the Chinese  Official 

continued  to  work  with  Morgan  Stanley  as a  private  real  estate  developer  and  broker  until 

approximately the time Peterson was terminated in 2008. 

       10.     The  Canadian  Attorney  at  all  times  pertinent  to  the  conduct  described  in  this 

Complaint worked in Hong Kong for law firms and for an insurance  company as its chief legal 

officer. 

                                 FACTUAL      BACKGROUND 

       11.     Peterson began at Morgan Stanley in 2002 with a pre-existing business and 

personal relationship with the Chinese Official, an experienced Shanghai real estate investor and 

Chairman  of the Luwan government-owned  entity Y ongye.  Peterson led Morgan Stanley'S 

effort to build a Chinese real estate investment portfolio for its real estate funds by cultivating a 

relationship with the Chinese Official to take advantage ofhis ability to steer opportunities to 

Morgan Stanley, his familiarity with and influence in helping with needed governmental 

                                                4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

approvals,  and his real estate investment  and management  experience generally.  During the 

pertinent period, Morgan Stanley partnered with Y ongye in a number    of significant Chinese real 

estate investments  and recognized  Yongye, led by the Chinese Official, as one of Morgan 

Stanley's  most significant partners in China.  At the same time, Peterson and the Chinese 

Official expanded their personal business dealings, both in a real estate interest secretly acquired 

from Morgan Stanley, as well as  by  investing together in Chinese franchises of well-known  u.S. 

fast food restaurants.  Peterson failed to disclose all these investments  in annual disclosures of 

personal business interests Morgan Stanley required him to make as part   of his employment. 

                                         Project Cavity 

                       [Shanghai  Jin Lin Tiandi Serviced Apartments] 


       12.     In 2002, in a project named "Project Wally," MSREF IV co-invested as a 

minority partner with Yongye and  other investors in a dual-use, two-tower building in the Luwan 

District ofShanghai.  In late 2004, in a transaction  called "Project  Cavity," MSREF IV, along 

with others, purchased one  ofthese two towers, known as the Shanghai Jin Lin Tiandi Serviced 

Apartments.  As one  of the sellers  in Project Cavity, Yongye's  approval was required before  the 

sale could take place.  In addition, because Yongye was the project manager for the selling 

consortium,  it managed the sale process.  As Morgan Stanley and Peterson were negotiating the 

purchase of Project Cavity in October 2004, Peterson, the Chairman    ofYongye   (the Chinese 

Official) and the Canadian Attorney secretly were planning to purchase an interest from MSREF 

IV after MSREF IV purchased  the tower from the selling consortium.  As the vehicle for 

purchasing  and holding their interest, Peterson, the Chinese Official and the Canadian Attorney 

used a British Virgin Islands  entity called Asiasphere  Holdings Ltd. ("Asiasphere").  As 

described below in paragraph  16, they misrepresented  to officers and employees  of Morgan 

Stanley that Asiasphere was a subsidiary ofYongye.  Accordingly,  officers and employees     of 

                                                 5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

Morgan Stanley who had decision making authority over whether MSREF IV would sell an 

interest in Project Cavity believed that they were selling that interest to Y ongye, when, in fact, 

they were unknowingly  selling the interest to Peterson, the Chinese Official and the Canadian 

Attorney. 

       13.     In his effort to convince Morgan Stanley and its fund to sell an interest in Project 

Cavity to Asiasphere-an   entity officers and employees  of Morgan Stanley believed to  be 

Yongye-Peterson     told others at Morgan Stanley that the Chinese Official, in his capacity as 

Chairman ofYongye,  caused the selling consortium to sell Project Cavity to Morgan Stanley at a 

price that was lower than a competing offer.  According to emails Peterson wrote  ~o his Morgan 

Stanley colleagues at the time MSREF IV bought Project Cavity, the Chinese Official showed 

Peterson the written offer ofone competing bidder in confidence "to make clear the competition 

we're facing" and had "really gone out  ofhis way to help [Morgan Stanley] on this deal."  In 

November  2005 as the time neared for Asiasphere's  purchase from MSREF IV, Peterson told his 

colleagues, "WE  OWE [YONGYE] A FAVOR           ... [Yongye] gave us this deal."  (Emphasis in 

original.)  Peterson also credited the Chinese Official with helping obtain approvals  required 

from other Chinese government entities for the deal to close. 

       14.     Peterson, the Chinese Official and the Canadian Attorney funded their nearly  $3 

million  Cavity investment in March 2006 and, through Asiasphere, purchased  approximately 

12%  of MSREF IV's  interest.  Asiasphere paid its purchase price in U.S. Dollars to a Morgan 

Stanley bank account in New York City.  The Chinese Official owned 47%       ofAsiasphere,  and 

Peterson and the Canadian Attorney shared the remaining    53%-through    their ownership, 81 % 

and 19% respectively,  of a British Virgin Islands company called Strong Man Ltd.  Peterson 

controlled this 81 % interest in Strong Man directly and/or through a British Virgin Islands 

                                                 6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

company called Paraplay.  Altogether, Peterson had a 43% interest in Asiasphere.  Asiasphere 

bought 12%  of Jin Lin Tiandi Holding Company,  a Caymans Island Company, which owned  the 

Shanghai Jin Lin Tiandi Serviced Apartments  as follows: Jin Lin Tiandi Holding Company 

owned 100%   of and controlled Sky Luck Property Corp., a British Virgin Islands Company; 

which owned  100%   of and controlled King Project Limited, a Hong Kong Company; which 

owned 100%   of and controlled Shanghai Jin Lin Tiandi Serviced Apartment Management  Co. 

Ltd., a People's  Republic of China Company; which owned 100%     of and controlled the Shanghai 

Jin Lin Tiandi Serviced Apartments in Shanghai, China. 

       15.     In negotiating both sides ofthe transaction,  Peterson also arranged for Asiasphere 

to buy its interest in Project Cavity at MSREF IV's October 2004 basis.  Accordingly, 

Asiasphere's  near-$3 million investment was already in-the-money  by as much as $6 million  at 

the time ofthe investment  in 2006 because the property had risen in value since Morgan 

Stanley'S fund bought it in late 2004.  This secret self-dealing breached the fiduciary duties 

Peterson and Morgan Stanley owed to their fund client. 

       16.     As enumerated below, Peterson, the Chinese Official and the Canadian 

Attorney-who    acted as Asiasphere's  attorney for the deal-lied to others at Morgan Stanley 

that Y ongye was the purchaser.  To make Morgan Stanley believe it was selling the Cavity 

interest to Y ongye, Peterson, the Canadian Attorney and the Chinese Official misrepresented  that 

Asiasphere was  an offshore subsidiary ofYongye.  During the years preceding the Cavity 

transaction, Morgan Stanley engaged in a number   of real estate transactions  involving Y ongye 

and had learned that Y ongye conducted its business through a Hong Kong holding company and 

a BVI holding company all  of which Morgan Stanley employees referred to interchangeably  as 

Y ongye, "YY"  or "YYI".  During these years, Morgan Stanley had conducted due diligence into 

                                                7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

Yongye, its Chairman (the Chinese Official) and its two offshore entities.  As Peterson knew, 

Morgan Stanley's  due diligence included interviews with  the Chinese Official and the Canadian 

Attorney (who represented a Yongye entity), record reviews, and background and reference 

checks.  Examples  of Peterson, the Chinese Official and the Canadian Attorney's 

misrepresentations that  Y ongye owned Asiasphere include the following: 

               a.     On or about October 28, 2004, Peterson sent an email to several Morgan 

Stanley employees in which he explained that Y ongye, and not the Chinese Official, would be 

acquiring a 12-percent stake in Project Cavity, falsely writing "must to be clear, [the Chinese 

Official] will not 'acquire  another 4.5% ofshares'  from [Morgan Stanley].  It's Yong Ye ..." 

               b.     On or about November  16, 2005, Peterson emailed several Morgan 

Stanley employees in response to an email discussing the terms  ofYongye's   purported 

investment in Project Cavity, "Everyone pIs [sic] keep in mind the big picture here.  YY gave us 

this deal. ... So we owe them a favor relating to this deal. ... This should be very easy and 

friendly." 

               c.     On or about November 23,2005,  Peterson sent an email to several Morgan 

Stanley employees in which he described "YYI"  as "our friends who are corning in because WE 

OWE THEM A FAVOR."  (Emphasis in original.) 

               d.     At Peterson, the Chinese Official and the Canadian Attorney's  doing, the 

2006 shareholder agreement  for Project Cavity used the abbreviation "YY"   to refer to 

Asiasphere. 

               e.     After the March 2006 sale, Peterson and the Canadian Attorney made 

additional misrepresentations  about Asiasphere's  ownership.  For instance, on or about August 4, 

                                                8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

2006, the Canadian Attorney falsely represented to a Morgan Stanley employee that Asiasphere 

was owned   by Y ongye, writing "I confirm, as Asiasphere's  counsel in their acquisition of 12% 

equity interests in [Project Cavity], that Asiasphere  Holdings Limited is 100% beneficially 

owned  by Shanghai Yongye Enterprise (Group) Co., Ltd., a PRC company whose legal address 

is 32nd floor, 138 Huai Hai Zong Lu, Shanghai, China."  This  misrepresentation  was made in 

response to an inquiry from a Morgan Stanley employee pursuant to a third party's  know-your­

customer requirements  in connection with a refinancing  being sought for Project Cavity. 

       17.     Peterson never disclosed his own stake, in annual disclosures  ofpersonal business 

interests Morgan Stanley required him to make as part  of his employment  or otherwise, until 

around the time of his termination  in late 2008.  Morgan Stanley paid Asiasphere approximately 

$2 million in at least five separate Cavity shareholder distributions  from 2006 to 2008.  Peterson 

was entitled to approximately  $860,000 of these distributions  based on his ownership of 

Asiasphere. 

                                           Project 138 

                                [Shanghai Square Inimiti Mall] 


       18.     In 2005, and without Morgan Stanley's  knowledge,  Peterson and the Canadian 

Attorney secretly acquired from Morgan Stanley and its MSREF  V Fund an interest in another 

Luwan District real estate deal called Project 138.  MSREF V acquired the retail property earlier 

in 2005 and in October, at Peterson's  doing, sold 10% of it to a group ofbuyers led by a 

Shanghai real estate designer and investor who had a prior business relationship  with Morgan 

Stanley ("the Shanghai Investor").  Without disclosure to Morgan Stanley or its fund, and 

without mention in the transactional  documents they prepared,  Peterson and the Canadian 

Attorney-who    acted as the Shanghai Investor's  lawyer-bought    approximately  1 % of the 

Project as part ofthe Shanghai Investor's  group.  In fact, when others at Morgan Stanley asked 
                                                 9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

who the Shanghai Investor's  co-investors were, the Canadian Attorney and Peterson directed the 

Shanghai Investor not to reveal their identities.  Peterson also failed to disclose his stake in 

Project  138 in annual disclosures ofpersonal business interests Morgan Stanley required him to 

make as part of his employment.  As in Project Cavity, Peterson negotiated  both sides   ofthis 

Project 138 sale to himself.  While managing the Morgan Stanley staff responsible  for 

negotiating the sale and protecting MSREF    V's interests, Peterson secretly helped the Shanghai 

Investor and the Canadian Attorney negotiate the terms   of the written purchase and sale 

agreements.  This secret self-dealing breached the fiduciary duties Peterson and Morgan Stanley 

owed to their fund client. 

                               The 3-2-1 Deal and Project Beatles 

        19.    As Peterson and Asiasphere  funded their investment in Project Cavity  in early 

2006, Morgan Stanley was negotiating  at least five separate Chinese real estate investments 

involving Yongye and  its Chairman-the     Chinese Official.  To incentivize  the Chinese Official 

to help Morgan Stanley win this business and to reward the Chinese Official for all he had done 

for Morgan Stanley and Peterson   personally-and    despite his recognition  that the Chinese 

Official's  "position  as head of [Y ongye didn't]  allow him to make such investments"-Peterson, 

on behalf of Morgan Stanley, invited the Chinese Official personally to invest with Morgan 

Stanley and its funds in these five pending investments  at a discount.  Accordingly,  Peterson 

offered an arrangement referred to here as the 3-2-1 deal.  Under the terms  ofthe  deal, Morgan 

Stanley would sell the Chinese Official a 3% interest in each deal he brought to Morgan Stanley 

for the cost of2%, providing the Chinese Official a 1 % discount Peterson called a "finder's  fee." 

Peterson also promised to pay the Chinese Official an added return on any completed purchase 

he called a "promote,"  to incentivize  the Chinese Official to help make any acquired investments 

                                                 10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

profitable. 

       20.     Project Beatles was one  of the investments  covered by the 3-2-1 arrangement with 

the Chinese Official. It was a large-scale mixed-use  development project Morgan Stanley and its 

MSREF V fund negotiated  and bought from the Luwan government, with Y ongye as a minority 

investor.  In early 2006, Morgan Stanley began negotiating the purchase,  which closed in 

October.  While Y ongye was not the seller, the Luwan government asked the Chinese Official to 

find potential buyers and Morgan Stanley credited him as a finder.  Morgan Stanley also credited 

the Chinese Official with other help on the deal, including obtaining a favorable price.  Morgan 

Stanley also credited the Shanghai Investor as a finder, who Morgan Stanley hired as one    ofthe 

project's  designers and developers  and who was the same person through whom Peterson bought 

his secret interest in Project 138. 

       21.     In the context ofrecommending  to supervisors in Morgan Stanley's  real estate 

business that Morgan Stanley funds make at least four   of these real estate acquisitions,  Peterson 

disclosed to these supervisors the proposed 3-2-1  arrangement with the Chinese Official in April 

2006.  Less than a month later, however-before    the official had been paid anything-a   Morgan 

Stanley employee in the controller function  ofMorgan Stanley'S real estate business warned    of 

the bribery implications ofpaying the Chinese Official personally for help obtaining business. 

One of Peterson's  Morgan Stanley supervisors then instructed Peterson to abandon the 3-2-1 deal 

with the Chinese Official. 

       22.     Peterson still secretly shared with the Chinese Official part of a finder's  fee 

Peterson caused Morgan Stanley and its funds to pay the Shanghai Investor for Project Beatles. 

Specifically, in March 2007, six months or so after the Chinese Official retired from Y ongye, 

Peterson caused Morgan Stanley and MSREF V to pay the Shanghai Investor a $2.2 million 

                                                11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

finder's  fee.  The Shanghai Investor transferred $1.6 million ofthis fee to Peterson, who gave 

nearly $700,000 to the Chinese Official and kept the rest for himself.  The Shanghai Investor 

agreed to help Peterson steal these funds in exchange for his promise to help the Shanghai 

Investor get future business from Morgan Stanley.  Peterson kept his payment to the Chinese 

Official and his own kickback a secret from his Morgan Stanley supervisors and the MSREF V 

Fund.  This misappropriation  offunds breached the fiduciary duties Peterson and Morgan 

Stanley owed to their fund client. 

           Morgan    Stanley's FCPA   Compliance    Program   and  Internal Controls 

       23.     Morgan Stanley trained Peterson on the FCPA numerous times during his 

employment, as follows: 

               (1)    Morgan Stanley trained Peterson on anti-corruption policies and the FCP A 

               at least seven times between 2002 and 2008.  In addition to other live and web­

               based training, Peterson participated in a teleconference training conducted by 

               Morgan Stanley'S Global Head    ofLitigation and Global Head  of Morgan 

               Stanley's  Anti-Corruption  Group in June 2006. 

               (2)    Morgan Stanley distributed to Peterson written training materials 

               specifically addressing the FCP A, which Peterson maintained in his office. 

              (3)     A Morgan Stanley compliance officer specifically informed Peterson in 

              2004 that employees   of Y ongye, a Chinese state-owned entity, were government 

              officials for purposes ofthe FCP A. 

               (4)    Peterson received from Morgan Stanley at least thirty five FCPA-

              compliance reminders.  These reminders included FCP A-specific distributions; 

                                               12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

               circulations and reminders of Morgan Stanley's  Code   ofConduct, which included 

               policies that directly addressed  the FCP A; various reminders concerning Morgan 

               Stanley's  policies on gift-giving and entertainment; the circulation ofMorgan 

               Stanley's  Global Anti-Bribery Policy; guidance on the engagement   of consultants; 

               and policies addressing specific high-risk events, including the Beijing Olympics. 

               (5)    Morgan Stanley required Peterson on multiple occasions    to certify his 

               compliance with the FCP A.  These written certifications were maintained in 

               Peterson's  permanent employment record. 

       24.     Morgan Stanley required each   of its employees, including Peterson, annually to 

certify adherence to Morgan Stanley's  Code  of Conduct, which included a portion specifically 

addressing corruption  risks and activities that would violate the FCP A. 

       25.     Morgan Stanley required its employees, including Peterson, annually to disclose 

their outside business interests. 

       26.     Morgan Stanley had policies  to conduct due diligence on its foreign business 

partners, conducted due diligence on the Chinese Official and Y ongye before initially conducting 

business with them, and generally imposed an approval process for payments made in the course 

ofits real estate investments.  Both were meant to ensure, among other things, that transactions 

were conducted in accordance with management's  authorization and     to prevent improper 

payments, including the transfer of things ofvalue to officials offoreign governments. 

                                         FIRST   CLAIM 
                        Violations  of Section 30A  of the Exchange Act 
                                            (Bribery) 

       27.     Paragraphs 1 through 26 are realleged and incorporated  by  reference herein. 

       28. 	   Section 30A(g)  ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78dd-l(g)]  prohibits any issuer, 
                                                13 
---------------------Page 14---------------------

or any United States person that is an officer, director, employee, or agent of such issuer or a 

stockholder  thereof acting on behalf ofsuch issuer, to corruptly do any act outside the United 

States, irrespective ofwhether the mails  or any means or instrumentality  of interstate commerce 

are used, in furtherance ofan offer, payment, promise to pay, or authorization   ofthe payment   of 

any money, or offer, gift, promise to give, or authorization of the giving of anything of value to 

any foreign official for the purpose of(i) influencing their acts or decisions, inducing them to do 

or omit to do any act in violation oftheir lawful duty, or securing an improper advantage, or (ii) 

inducing them to use their influence with a foreign government  or instrumentality  thereof to 

affect or influence any act or decision of such government or instrumentality,  in order to assist 

such issuer in obtaining or retaining business. 

       29.     By  reason ofthe  foregoing offers and payments to the Chinese Official, Peterson 

violated,  and unless restrained  and enjoined is reasonably likely again to violate, Section 30A(g) 

of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   § 78dd-l(g)]. 

                                        SECOND CLAIM 

                       Violations  of Section 13(b )(5) of the Exchange Act 

                              (Circumvention    of Internal Controls) 


        30.    Paragraphs  1 through 26 above are realleged and incorporated    by reference 

herein. 

        31.    Section 13(b)(5)  ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.     § 78m(b)(5)] prohibits any 

person from knowingly  circumventing    or knowingly  failing to implement  a system  of internal 

accounting  controls or knowingly  falsifying any book, record, or account described in Section 

13(b)(2) of the Exchange Act [15   U.S.c.  § 78m(b)(2)]. 

        32.    By reason  of the foregoing, Peterson violated,  and unless restrained and enjoined 

is reasonably  likely again to violate, Section 13(b)(5) ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   § 

                                                 14 
---------------------Page 15---------------------

78m(b)(5)]. 

                                        THIRD    CLAIM 
      Aiding  and Abetting  Violations  of Sections 206(1) and 206(2)   of the Advisers  Act 
                                             (Fraud) 

       33.     Paragraphs 1 through 26 above are realleged and incorporated   by reference 

herein. 

       34.     Section 206 of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C.  §§  80b-6(1) and 80b-6(2)] makes it 

unlawful for any investment adviser, by  use ofthe mails or any means or instrumentalities  of 

interstate commerce, directly or indirectly, knowingly, willfully, or recklessly: 

               (1)    to employ any device, scheme, or artifice to defraud any client or 

               prospective client; or 

               (2)    to engage in any transaction, practice, or course ofbusiness that operates 

               as a fraud or deceit upon any client or prospective client. 

       35.     Section 203(d) of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. § 80b-3] provides that  Section 206 

[15 U.S.C. §§ 80b-6] and other provisions  of the Advisers Act apply  to investment advisers 

registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 203, or any person acting on behalf   of such 

an investment adviser, irrespective of any use ofthe mails or any means or instrumentality  of 

interstate commerce. 

       36.     During the relevant period, MSREF IV, LLC, and MSREF V, LLC, were 

investment advisers within the meaning  of Section 202(a)(11)  ofthe Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. § 

80b-2(a)(11)] registered with the Commission pursuant to Section 203    ofthe Advisers Act [15 

U.S.c.  § 80b-3]. 

       37.     During the relevant period, Peterson was a person associated with an investment 

                                                15 
---------------------Page 16---------------------

adviser within the meaning  of Section 202(a)(17)  ofthe Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. § 80b-2(a)(17)] 

and a person acting on behalf of an investment adviser within the meaning   of Section 203( d) of 

the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C. § 80b-3]. 

       38.     Peterson, by engaging in the conduct described above, knowingly     or recklessly 

substantially  assisted violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) ofthe Advisers Act [15 U.S.C.  §§ 

80b-6(1) and 80b-6(2)]  by MSREF IV and MSREF V. 

       39.     By reason  ofthe foregoing, Peterson aided and abetted, and unless restrained  and 

enjoined is reasonably likely again to aid and abet, violations of Sections 206(1) and 206(2) of 

the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C.  §§ 80b-6(1) and 80b-6(2)]. 

                                    RELIEF REQUESTED 

       The Commission respectfully requests that this Court: 

          1. 	 enter an order permanently  enjoining Defendant Garth Peterson from violating 

               Sections 13(b)(5) and 30A   ofthe Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.    §§ 78m(b)(5) and 

               78dd-l]  and Sections 206(1) and 206(2)  of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 80b­

               6(1) and 80b-6(2)]; 

         11. 	 order Defendant Garth Peterson to pay a civil penalty pursuant to Sections 

               21 (d)(3) and 32(c) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C.   §§ 78u(d)(3) and 78ff(c)] and 

               Section 209(e) of the Advisers Act [15 U.S.c.  § 80b-9(e)]; 

        111. 	 order Peterson to disgorge ill-gotten gains wrongfully  obtained as a result ofhis 

               illegal conduct, including his interest in the Shanghai Jin Lin Tiandi Serviced 

               Apartments, plus pre-judgment  interest; 

        IV. 	  freeze and appoint a receiver over Peterson's  interest in the Shanghai Jin Lin 

               Tiandi Serviced Apartments;  and 


                                                16 

---------------------Page 17---------------------

         v.   grant the Commission such other and further relief as is just and appropriate. 

Dated: April 25, 2012                       Respectfully submitted, 

                                            Richard Hong 
Of Counsel:                                 Securities and Exchange Commission 
Gerald Hodgkins                             100 F Street, N.E. 
Gregory Faragasso                           Washington, D.C.  20549 
David Neuman                                Tel: 202-551-4431 (Hong) 
                                            Facsimile:  (202) 772-9246 

                                              17 
