---------------------Page 1---------------------

                 IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE  

                          WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI 

                                  WESTERN DIVISION 


Securities and Exchange Commission,      ) 
                                         )
    P                        laintiff,   )
                                   ) 
v.                                       )      Case No. 4:08-cv-00677-GAF 
                                         ) 
Warren B. Schmidgall and                 ) 
David E. Watson,                         ) 
                                         )
                     Defendants.         ) 
_____________________________________________________________________________ 
                                      COMPLAINT 

_____________________________________________________________________________ 

      Plaintiff Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission” or “SEC”) for its 

complaint alleges as follows: 

                               I.      INTRODUCTION 
1)	   This is an SEC enforcement action based upon fraudulent misstatements in financial 

      statements filed with the SEC and disseminated to the investing public by a publicly 

      traded company, American Italian Pasta Company (“AIPC”) from the company’s fiscal 

      year 2002 through the second quarter of the company’s fiscal year 2004.  The named 

      defendants are two former officers of AIPC who participated in and directed the 

      fraudulent scheme.  As a result of the scheme, AIPC’s reported quarterly pre-tax net 

      income was fraudulently overstated during the time period alleged in the complaint by as 

      much as 219 percent, and its earnings per share by as much as 220 percent.  The SEC 

      seeks injunctive relief, disgorgement, penalties, and other relief against the defendants 

      based upon their participation in the fraudulent scheme. 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

                    II.     RELATED ENTITY AND DEFENDANTS 

2)	    American Italian Pasta Company is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of 

       business in Kansas City, Missouri.  AIPC claims to be the largest producer and marketer 

       of dry pasta in North America.  At all relevant times, AIPC’s common stock was 

       registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (“Exchange 

       Act”), and the company filed annual, quarterly, and current reports with the Commission 

       on Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K, respectively.  The company’s fiscal year end is the last 

       Friday of September or the first Friday of October, resulting in either a 52 or 53-week 

       fiscal year.  AIPC’s common stock was traded on the New York Stock Exchange 

       (“NYSE”) until December 20, 2006, when the NYSE suspended trading based on AIPC’s 

       failure to keep current its Commission filings.  AIPC’s stock is currently quoted on 

       www.pinksheets.com, which is operated by Pink OTC Markets, Inc. 

3)	    Warren B. Schmidgall (“Schmidgall”), age 58, of Topeka, Kansas, was hired by AIPC 

       in November 1998 and served as AIPC’s chief financial officer (“CFO”) and as an 

       executive vice president from that time until August 2004.  In his role as CFO, 

       Schmidgall oversaw AIPC’s accounting and financial reporting, and was responsible for 

       internal accounting controls.  From August 2004 until September 2005, Schmidgall 

       served as AIPC’s executive vice president of strategic planning.  At all relevant times, 

       Schmidgall reported to AIPC’s chief executive officer (“CEO”), Timothy S. Webster.  

       Schmidgall resigned from AIPC in September 2005.  Prior to his employment at AIPC, 

       Schmidgall worked at another manufacturing company for 16 years, where he served as 

       CFO and in other senior positions.  Schmidgall has held an Illinois CPA certificate since 

       1980, but has never held a CPA license. 

                                              2

---------------------Page 3---------------------

4)	    David E. Watson (“Watson”), age 53, of Kansas City, Missouri, was hired by AIPC as 

       its CFO in 1994 and served in that position for approximately four years.  Watson then 

       served as the head of AIPC’s logistics and customer service department for 

       approximately 2 years.  From approximately October 2000 through March 2003, Watson 

       served as AIPC’s executive vice president of operations and corporate development 

       (“Operations EVP”).  As Operations EVP, Watson oversaw AIPC’s pasta manufacturing 

       operations and supervised its engineering department.  From approximately April 2003 

       through December 2003, when he resigned his AIPC employment, Watson served as 

       AIPC’s executive vice president of corporate development and strategy (“Corporate 

       Development EVP”).  Prior to his resignation, Watson agreed to consult with AIPC on an 

       as-needed basis from January 1, 2004 through December 31, 2005.  At all times during 

       his tenure at AIPC, Watson reported to the company’s CEO.   

                                   III.     SUMMARY 
5)	    From AIPC’s fiscal year 2002 through the second quarter of its fiscal year 2004, 

       Schmidgall, Watson, and AIPC’s CEO were engaged in a fraudulent scheme to mislead 

       the investing public about the growth of the company’s earnings and increase its stock 

       price.  As a result, AIPC fraudulently overstated pre-tax net income by approximately 

       $11.5 million or 23 percent in fiscal year 2002; by approximately $19.7 million or 45 

       percent in fiscal year 2003; by approximately $4.4 million or 56 percent in the first 

       quarter of fiscal year 2004; and by approximately $700,000 or seven percent in the 

       second quarter of fiscal year 2004.  This fraudulent overstatement of pre-tax net income 

       caused AIPC’s earnings per share (“EPS”) to be overstated by approximately 23 percent 

                                              3

---------------------Page 4---------------------

       in fiscal year 2002, 41 percent in fiscal year 2003, 59 percent in the first quarter of fiscal 

       year 2004, and eight percent in the second quarter of fiscal year 2004. 

6)	    On June 16, 2008, AIPC filed restated consolidated financials statements.  The 

       restatement corrected both fraudulent errors and errors arising from inadequate internal 

       controls and reduced AIPC’s pre-tax income for fiscal year 2002 through the second 

       quarter of fiscal year 2004 by approximately $59 million or 66 percent.  AIPC admitted 

       in the June 16, 2008 filing that the restatement “corrects errors arising from poor record 

       keeping, recording transactions without economic substance, recording unsupported 

       journal entries to the general ledger, not maintaining a proper tone as to internal controls 

       and failure to adjust accounts for required amounts.” 

7)	    From the beginning of AIPC’s fiscal year 2002 through the second quarter of fiscal year 

       2004, Schmidgall participated in AIPC’s fraudulent scheme by participating in improper 

       accounting practices, by failing to prevent improper accounting practices directed by 

       others that he knew were improper, and by making misrepresentations to AIPC’s auditor.  

       As a result of this conduct, Schmidgall, directly and indirectly, has engaged in, and unless 

       restrained and enjoined by this Court, will in the future engage in, transactions, acts, 

       practices, and courses of business that violate Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the 

       Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78j(b) and 78m(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, 13b2-2, and 

       13a-14, thereunder [17 C.F.R. §§ 240.10b-5, 240.13b2-1, 240.13b2-2, and 240.13a-14] 

       and that aid and abet AIPC’s violations of Sections 13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of 

       the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B)] and Rules 

       12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, 17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-1, 

       240.13a-11, and 240.13a-13. 

                                                4

---------------------Page 5---------------------

8)	    From the beginning of AIPC’s fiscal year 2002 through the first quarter of fiscal year 

       2004, Watson was also a participant in AIPC’s fraudulent scheme and directed or 

       facilitated, including through misrepresentations to AIPC’s auditor, a significant portion 

       of the improper accounting practices that inflated AIPC’s earnings.  As a result of this 

       conduct, Watson, directly and indirectly, has engaged in, and unless restrained and 

       enjoined by this Court, will in the future engage in, transactions, acts, practices, and 

       courses of business that violate Sections 10(b) and 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act, 15 

       U.S.C. §§ 78j(b) and 78m(b)(5), and Rules 10b-5, 13b2-1, and 13b2-2 thereunder [17 

       C.F.R. §§ 240.10b-5, 240.13b2-1, and 240.13b2-2] and that aid and abet violations of 

       Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a) and 

       78m(b)(2)(A)] and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 thereunder, 17 C.F.R. §§ 

       240.12b-20, 240.13a-1, 240.13a-11, and 240.13a-13. 

9)	    The Commission brings this action pursuant to the authority conferred upon it by 

       Sections 21(d) and (e) of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(d) and (e), for an order: (1) 

       permanently restraining and enjoining Schmidgall and Watson; (2) prohibiting each of 

       Schmidgall and Watson from acting as an officer or director of any issuer that has a class 

       of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78l] or 

       that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 

       § 78o(d)]; (3) finding Schmidgall and Watson liable for disgorgement (plus prejudgment 

       interest); (4) imposing on Schmidgall and Watson third-tier civil penalties; and (5) 

       granting such other equitable relief as the Court deems necessary and appropriate. 

                                                5

---------------------Page 6---------------------

                          IV.      JURISDICTION AND VENUE 

10)	   This Court has jurisdiction over this action pursuant to Sections 21(e) and 27 of the 

       Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 78u(e) and 78aa.  Venue lies in this Court pursuant to 

       Section 27 of the Exchange Act, 15 U.S.C. § 78aa. 

11)	   In connection with the transactions, acts, practices, and courses of business described in 

       this Complaint, Schmidgall and Watson, directly and indirectly, have made use of the 

       means or instrumentalities of interstate commerce or of the mails. 

12)	   Certain of the transactions, acts, practices and courses of business constituting the 

       violations of law alleged herein occurred within this district. 

                                       V.      FACTS 
       A. 	   Overview of the Participation of Schmidgall and Watson in AIPC’s 
              Fraudulent Scheme 
13)	   From its inception as a public company, AIPC’s goal was to be a high-growth company 

       in the low-growth food producers segment of the market.  From its 1997 initial public 

       offering (“IPO”) through fiscal year 2001, the company achieved rapid revenue and 

       earnings growth based primarily on market share gains by its private label business unit, 

       which generally sold pasta to be marketed under grocery chains’ store brands.  

14)	   As AIPC’s CEO planned for fiscal year 2002, he determined that the company’s EPS 

       growth rates relative to other food companies would drive increases in its stock price and 

       developed a “Long Range Plan” for fiscal year 2002 through fiscal year 2004 predicated 

       on top and bottom line annual growth of 15 to 20 percent.  The plan targeted annual 

       revenues of $500 million, earnings (before interest and taxes) of $100 million, and EPS 

       of three dollars by fiscal year 2004.  Schmidgall and Watson were involved in the 

                                               6

---------------------Page 7---------------------

       development of the Long Range Plan and, like other senior AIPC executives, referred to 

       these results as “5-1-3 Triple Crown Performance.”   

15)	   AIPC touted to Wall Street analysts the company’s consistent track record of meeting or 

       beating consensus earnings estimates, and promised that AIPC would continue to “stand 

       out from the crowd” of food companies through high growth.   

16)	   For fiscal year 2002 through the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, AIPC established 

       aggressive quarterly and annual revenue and profit expectations, which the company 

       communicated to Wall Street analysts and incorporated into its internal operating 

       budgets.  Schmidgall participated in all or nearly all of AIPC’s formal communications 

       with Wall Street analysts relating to AIPC’s projected and reported results from the 

       beginning of fiscal year 2002 through second quarter of fiscal year 2004.  Throughout 

       this time period, AIPC’s business consistently failed to generate the profits it had 

       promised analysts. 

17)	   In response to its earnings shortfalls, AIPC held “Profit Achievement Task Force” 

       (“PATF”) meetings and other meetings where the participants discussed methods to close 

       the earnings gap.  Schmidgall and Watson were primary participants in all or nearly all of 

       these meetings while they were employed at AIPC.   

18)	   At PATF and similar meetings, Schmidgall, Watson, and other senior executives 

       committed to execute various practices which they termed “profit initiatives” or 

       “recovery items” to enable AIPC to overcome its earnings shortfalls.  In some cases, 

       Schmidgall and Watson were jointly responsible for the same recovery item.  The AIPC 

       CEO’s annual evaluations of Schmidgall and Watson were based in part on their ability 

                                               7

---------------------Page 8---------------------

       to achieve budgeted performance in their respective areas of responsibility and to execute 

       initiatives to help AIPC achieve its earnings targets.  Schmidgall and Watson knew that 

       the recovery or profit achievement process was not considered complete until the 

       practices had caused AIPC’s net income to be lifted to meet Wall Street’s consensus 

       earnings estimate. 

19)	   Some of AIPC’s PATF initiatives and recovery items were legitimate business strategies, 

       but when AIPC faced a significant gap to the consensus earnings estimate the company 

       turned to accounting manipulations.   

20)	   In connection with PATF or similar meetings, Schmidgall or one of his subordinates 

       often prepared a list of the recovery items that needed to be executed in order for AIPC to 

       meet its earnings target.  Typically the initials of one or more senior AIPC executives 

       were next to each recovery item on the list to indicate managerial responsibility for the 

       execution of the item.  During Schmidgall’s tenure as CFO, his initials, “WS,” were listed 

       next to a significant number of recovery items, many of which he executed by directing 

       or facilitating fraudulent accounting practices.  During Watson’s tenure as Operations 

       EVP and Corporate Development EVP, his initials, “DW,” were also listed next to a 

       significant number of recovery items, many of which he likewise executed by directing or 

       facilitating fraudulent accounting practices. 

21)	   From the beginning of AIPC’s fiscal year 2002 through the end of the second quarter of 

       its fiscal year 2004, Watson and Schmidgall each directed or facilitated, jointly or 

       individually, a variety of fraudulent accounting practices to enable AIPC to meet 

       analysts’ earnings expectations. 

                                                8

---------------------Page 9---------------------

22)	   As AIPC’s CFO, Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s 

       accounting manipulations, whether executed by himself, by Watson, or jointly by himself 

       and Watson, were contrary to GAAP.  Schmidgall failed to refuse the CEO’s requests for 

       accounting manipulations to improve AIPC’s reported earnings and also failed to take 

       meaningful steps to prevent the accounting manipulations directed or facilitated by 

       Watson. 

23)	   Prior to his employment at AIPC, Watson worked as an auditor at Arthur Anderson LLP 

       from approximately 1978 to 1994.  Before Watson left Arthur Anderson in 1994, he had 

       been a partner at the firm for several years.  As an Arthur Anderson auditor, Watson 

       audited the financial statements of many different manufacturing companies.  From 

       approximately 1980 to 1994, Watson held active CPA licenses from Missouri and/or 

       Kansas. 

24)	   As an auditor at Arthur Anderson, Watson developed an understanding of generally 

       accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) and of the relationships between accounting 

       systems, policies, and procedures, accounting entries, and financial statements.  Watson 

       developed particular expertise and understanding in the area of accounting and GAAP 

       relevant to manufacturing company financial statements. 

25)	   As AIPC’s CFO, Watson developed a detailed and comprehensive understanding of 

       AIPC’s financial statements and accounting processes. 

26)	   As a certified public accountant with expertise in accounting for manufacturing 

       operations, Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that the accounting 

       manipulations he directed were contrary to GAAP.  Watson also knew or was reckless in 

                                              9

---------------------Page 10---------------------

       not knowing that his accounting manipulations were part of a scheme that incorporated 

       the manipulations he directed or facilitated and the manipulations directed or facilitated 

       by Schmidgall and others.  

27)	   Watson and Schmidgall were both significantly involved in fraudulent accounting by 

       AIPC in the following areas:  (1) improper reduction of current period expenses (which 

       improperly increased net income) by capitalizing approximately $10 million of current 

       period costs to manufacturing related assets from fiscal year 2002 through the end of the 

       second quarter of fiscal year 2004; (2) improper reduction of current period expenses 

       (which improperly increased net income) by capitalizing approximately $4.5 million of 

       current period costs to Management Information Systems (“MIS”) related assets from 

       fiscal year 2002 through the end of the second quarter of fiscal year 2004; (3) 

       overstatement of spare parts inventory that should have been written down by 

       approximately $1.4 million by the third or fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003; (4) improper 

       recognition of approximately $380,000 of revenue from a customer during fiscal year 

       2002; (5) reduction of fiscal year 2003 wheat costs by $500,000 based on an improper 

       reserve related to AIPC’s acquisition of a pasta business; (6) improper expense reductions 

       of approximately $1.28 million for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003 and $1 million 

       for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 in connection with reciprocal payment 

       arrangements related to AIPC’s acquisition of a specialty pasta business; and (7) 

       improper reduction of $1 million of expense for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 based 

       on a false receivable. 

28)	   In addition, Schmidgall directed or facilitated fraudulent accounting by AIPC in the 

       following areas:  (1) errors that understated AIPC’s trade promotion expense from fiscal 

                                               10

---------------------Page 11---------------------

       year 2002 through the end of fiscal year 2003 by approximately $10 million; (2) improper 

       recognition of approximately $346,000 of revenue for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 

       in connection with a reciprocal payment arrangement with an AIPC customer; (3) 

       improper recognition of approximately $3.2 million of revenue for the fourth quarter of 

       fiscal year 2003 on products shipped after the end of the quarter; (4) improper $1 million 

       income overstatement related to AIPC’s improper failure to reduce the carrying value of 

       its inventory at the end of fiscal year 2003 to its actual cost; (5) the improper $586,000 

       income overstatement for the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 related to the improper 

       elimination of AIPC’s compensated absence liability; (6) an improper $332,000 

       receivable that should have been written off no later than the first quarter of fiscal year 

       2004; (7) improper recognition of $1 million of revenue related to an up-front payment to 

       AIPC from a new supplier; (8) improper accounting associated with a supply agreement 

       between AIPC and one of its customers; and (9) improper depreciation delays.   

29)	   For fiscal year 2002, AIPC reported, before unusual items, EPS growth of 28 percent, 

       exactly in line with the consensus earnings estimate.  Without the fraudulent accounting 

       that inflated its earnings, AIPC would have had fiscal year 2002 EPS growth of 

       approximately 4 percent.  For fiscal year 2003, AIPC reported, before unusual items, EPS 

       growth of 13 percent, again exactly meeting the consensus estimate.  Without fraudulent 

       accounting, AIPC’s fiscal year 2003 EPS would have declined by approximately 20 

       percent.  For the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, AIPC reported, again in line with the 

       consensus estimate, a decline in EPS of 18 percent.  Without fraudulent accounting, 

       AIPC’s first quarter fiscal year 2004 EPS would have declined by approximately 49 

       percent.  For the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, AIPC reported, again in line with the 

                                               11

---------------------Page 12---------------------

       consensus estimate, a decline in EPS of approximately 33 percent.  Without fraudulent 

       accounting, second quarter fiscal year 2004 EPS would have declined approximately 38 

       percent.   Schmidgall was involved in virtually all of the fraudulent accounting that 

       enabled AIPC to report earnings consistent with analysts’ expectations for these periods.  

       The improper accounting that Watson directed or facilitated was an essential part of this 

       fraudulent scheme.   

30)	   From the beginning of fiscal year 2002 through the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, 

       AIPC included these false and misleading financial results in Forms 10-K and 10-Q filed 

       with the Commission.  Schmidgall signed all of these filings and, beginning with the 

       Form 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal year 2002, Schmidgall falsely certified that the 

       filings, to the best of his knowledge, contained no untrue statements of material fact or 

       omissions of a material fact necessary to make the statements made not misleading. 

31)	   The misleading results for the first and second quarters of fiscal year 2004 were also 

       included in the company’s fiscal year 2004 Form 10-K.  Although Schmidgall did not 

       sign the fiscal year 2004 Form 10-K, he reviewed the filing and, on or around December 

       10, 2004, falsely represented to AIPC’s new CFO that the financial statements it 

       contained were correct under GAAP. 

32)	   From fiscal year 2003 through the second quarter of 2004, AIPC’s misleading financial 

       results were also included in earnings releases attached to Forms 8-K filed with the 

       Commission, which Schmidgall also signed.   

33)	   From the beginning of fiscal 2002 through the second quarter of fiscal 2004, Schmidgall 

       also signed representation letters to AIPC’s auditor in connection with its audits and 

                                               12

---------------------Page 13---------------------

       reviews of AIPC’s financial statements.  The representation letters falsely stated that the 

       referenced financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP. 

34)	   Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that from the beginning of fiscal year 2002 

       through the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, AIPC included false and misleading financial 

       results in Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K that it filed with the Commission.  Watson also 

       knew or was reckless in not knowing that the misleading results for the first quarter of 

       fiscal year 2004 would be included in the company’s fiscal year 2004 Form 10-K.    

       B. 	   Capitalization of Manufacturing Expenses 
              1. 	    AIPC’s Capitalization Policy 
35)	   AIPC had significant capital projects that typically involved additions of new pasta 

       production lines in its manufacturing plants.  The lines were generally installed by third 

       parties under the direction of AIPC’s engineering department, which Watson supervised 

       during his tenure as Operations EVP.  When installation of a new line was completed, 

       AIPC’s engineering department and other AIPC employees “commissioned” the line 

       through a series of test runs and equipment adjustments.  During the commissioning 

       phase, the line produced saleable pasta in quantities that steadily increased. 

36)	   In 1998, Watson, in his role as CFO, developed a capitalization policy that (1) provided 

       that only direct installation costs could be capitalized and (2) outlined a method for 

       capturing internal commissioning costs to be capitalized.  Watson represented to AIPC’s 

       auditor in 1998 that few internal costs would be capitalized during line installations 

       because the installations were performed primarily by third parties.  During Watson’s 

       tenure at AIPC, his capitalization policy was not superseded by any other written 

       capitalization policy. 

                                               13

---------------------Page 14---------------------

37)	   After Schmidgall became AIPC’s CFO he familiarized himself with Watson’s 

       capitalization policy and supporting materials that Watson had developed.  In addition to 

       describing rationales for AIPC’s capitalization policy, the supporting materials explained 

       that “[AIPC’s plant] information systems . . . do not allow for the identification of 

       commissioning vs. non-commissioning costs on a person by person or job by job [basis].” 

       Schmidgall therefore knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s information 

       systems were not capable of precisely identifying what internal costs should be 

       capitalized as commissioning costs. 

              2. 	    Improper Capitalization Practices 
38)	   Under GAAP, costs directly related to getting assets ready for their intended use may be 

       capitalized as a cost of those assets instead of being recorded as current period expenses.   

39)	   As Operations EVP, Watson executed capitalization practices that caused internal costs to 

       be improperly capitalized.  Schmidgall facilitated the execution of Watson’s improper 

       capitalization practices and failed to implement adequate internal controls and procedures 

       for capitalization to manufacturing capital projects.  Watson’s capitalization practices, 

       Schmidgall’s facilitation of those practices, Schmidgall’s failures to implement adequate 

       internal controls and procedures, and other conduct by Watson and Schmidgall caused 

       AIPC to understate expenses by approximately $10 million from fiscal year 2002 through 

       the second quarter of fiscal year 2004. 

40)	   Contrary to the written policy Watson had developed, in practice AIPC capitalized 

       internal costs based on arbitrary capitalization estimates contained in its annual budgets 

       without reviewing the internal resources actually used to install or commission new lines.  

       As Operations EVP, Watson perpetuated this improper practice.  During AIPC’s annual 

                                               14

---------------------Page 15---------------------

       budgeting process, Watson gave his subordinates estimates of the amounts of internal 

       costs that would be capitalized to proposed capital projects and the subordinates 

       incorporated the estimates into AIPC’s plant operating budgets.  At the end of each 

       month of the respective fiscal year, Watson’s subordinates instructed AIPC’s accounting 

       department to record internal cost capitalization based on these budgets. 

41)	   Watson’s internal cost capitalization estimates that he gave to his subordinates were not 

       based on proper analysis.  Instead, Watson’s estimates of internal cost capitalization were 

       inflated by Watson’s imprecise determination of how much the equipment installations 

       might disrupt pasta production on AIPC’s existing lines.  Watson knew or was reckless in 

       not knowing that capitalization of disruption costs was contrary to GAAP and to AIPC’s 

       written capitalization policy. 

42)	   Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that his inflated capitalization estimates 

       would become the basis for monthly capitalization entries. 

43)	   Throughout fiscal 2002 and 2003, Watson directed his subordinates to capitalize internal 

       costs based on his inflated budget estimates.  Watson knew or was reckless in not 

       knowing that this capitalization practice was fraudulent. 

44)	   Prior to fiscal year 2002, Schmidgall learned about AIPC’s practice of recording 

       capitalization based on estimates in its budgets.  Schmidgall believed the practice was 

       bad accounting and an internal control weakness.  In or around June 2001, Schmidgall 

       told Watson’s subordinates that they would have to support monthly capitalization of 

       internal costs with lists that detailed the names of employees who had worked on capital 

       projects and the number of hours they had worked.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in 

                                               15

---------------------Page 16---------------------

       not knowing that AIPC did not have a system in place to capture this information.  

       Schmidgall also failed to take any meaningful steps to evaluate the effectiveness of his 

       capitalization support requirement. 

45)	   In response to Schmidgall’s requirement, Watson directed his subordinates to continue 

       following AIPC’s historical capitalization practices.  As a result, Watson’s subordinates 

       continued to base monthly capitalization entries on Watson’s budget estimates and 

       created false lists of employee names and hours to support the entries.   

46)	   The capitalization of internal costs recorded based on Watson’s budget estimates was the 

       minimum amount of internal cost capitalization recorded for each fiscal quarter during 

       Watson’s tenure as the Operations EVP.  Watson often instructed his subordinates to 

       capitalize additional internal costs on top of the amounts that had been capitalized based 

       on his budget estimates.  In some cases, Watson initiated the additional capitalization 

       himself.  In other cases, Watson committed to deliver additional capitalization at the 

       request of AIPC’s CEO during PATF or similar meetings.   

47)	   AIPC’s CEO often requested additional capitalization from Watson when AIPC projected 

       that its quarterly or annual earnings would fall short of Wall Street’s consensus estimates.  

       Watson complied with these requests without doing adequate analysis to determine the 

       extent to which internal resources had been used on capital projects.  In response to the 

       CEO’s requests, Watson fraudulently caused AIPC to record additional improper 

       capitalization.   

48)	   Schmidgall attended all or nearly all meetings at which AIPC’s CEO requested additional 

       capitalization from Watson.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that the 

                                               16

---------------------Page 17---------------------

       additional capitalization was fraudulent but did not adjust AIPC’s internal controls or 

       take any other meaningful steps to prevent the fraudulent capitalization. 

              3. 	    Examples of Fraudulent Additional Capitalization  

49)	   In or about November 2001, the head of AIPC’s engineering department sent an email to 

       Watson regarding a request by one of Watson’s subordinates for additional capitalization 

       of internal costs to AIPC’s largest ongoing capital project, which involved the installation 

       of a long-goods pasta production line in AIPC’s Excelsior Springs, Missouri production 

       plant and which was known internally as the I-line project (the “I-Line Project”).  The 

       email explained that the internal costs could not have been caused by the I-Line Project.  

       Watson directed the additional capitalization to be recorded anyway.  Watson knew or 

       was reckless in not knowing that this additional capitalization was fraudulent. 

50)	   In October 2001, Watson and Schmidgall both received a report from the head of AIPC’s 

       engineering department that indicated that the I-Line Project would be completed during 

       the first quarter of fiscal year 2002.  During December 2001 and January 2002, Watson 

       received two additional reports from the head of the engineering department confirming 

       that the I-Line Project had been completed. 

51)	   During January 2002, Watson, Schmidgall, and AIPC’s CEO learned that AIPC was 

       projecting earnings shortfalls for both the second quarter and full year for fiscal year 

       2002.  On or around January 21, 2002, Watson, Schmidgall, AIPC’s CEO, and other 

       senior executives discussed, among other recovery items, recording additional 

       capitalization during the remaining months of the year to help AIPC overcome the 

       earnings shortfall. 

                                              17

---------------------Page 18---------------------

52)	   Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that increasing future capitalization to 

       “recover” from the projected earnings shortfall was fraudulent, but took no action to 

       prevent Watson from executing the recovery item.   

53)	   Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that the I-Line Project was complete, but he 

       agreed with the CEO to record the additional capitalization to the I-Line Project to help 

       AIPC overcome the projected shortfall. 

54)	   As planned, the additional improper capitalization to the I-Line Project was recorded 

       gradually during the remaining months of fiscal year 2002.    

55)	   During March 2002 (the last month of the second fiscal quarter), Watson, Schmidgall, 

       and the CEO learned that AIPC’s earnings were still short of the second quarter 

       consensus estimate.  In response, Schmidgall created a list of recovery items for the 

       second quarter that included an item that read “increase capitalized expense.”  

       Schmidgall, Watson, and AIPC’s CEO discussed the recovery items on Schmidgall’s list 

       and Watson agreed to instruct his subordinates to further increase internal cost 

       capitalization.     

56)	   On or around March 18, 2002, Watson informed his subordinates that “increased 

       capitalization on capital projects has been ‘offered’ by Finance as a tool to aide [sic] in 

       the achievement of QII earnings.”  Watson then directed his subordinates to add the 

       additional capitalization to the I-Line Project.  Watson knew or was reckless in not 

       knowing that the I-Line Project was complete and that this additional capitalization was 

       fraudulent. 

                                               18

---------------------Page 19---------------------

57)	   On or around April 15, 2002, Schmidgall received a report that confirmed that the 

       additional capitalization had been recorded.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not 

       knowing that this additional capitalization was fraudulent.  During and following the 

       third quarter of fiscal year 2002 (April through June), Schmidgall received a series of 

       reports that showed that capitalization of internal costs to the I-Line Project continued 

       during that quarter.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that this 

       capitalization to the I-Line Project, which by the end of the third quarter had been 

       complete for more than six months, was fraudulent.  Schmidgall took no meaningful 

       steps to prevent or correct the fraudulent capitalization to the I-Line Project. 

       C. 	   Capitalization of Information Technology Expenses 
58)	   From fiscal year 2002 through the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, AIPC fraudulently 

       and improperly capitalized over $4.5 million to information technology related assets. 

59)	   Watson had management responsibility for AIPC’s MIS department prior to 

       approximately early or mid 2002, and he had continuing involvement and responsibilities 

       related to MIS during 2002 and 2003.  Watson was actively involved in the preparation of 

       the MIS department operating expense budgets for fiscal years 2002 and 2003, and he 

       may have been involved in preparation of the MIS budget for fiscal 2004. 

60)	   Schmidgall had management responsibility for the MIS department from approximately 

       early or mid 2002 until at least approximately August 2004.  Schmidgall was actively 

       involved in the preparation of the MIS department operating expense budgets for fiscal 

       years 2002, 2003 and 2004. 

                                              19

---------------------Page 20---------------------

61)	   Schmidgall and Watson failed to cause AIPC to obtain proper information and to create 

       appropriate written policies regarding capitalization of MIS related expenses, and they 

       failed to implement appropriate procedures and controls in this area.  These failures and 

       other conduct by Watson and Schmidgall caused, permitted, or contributed to most or all 

       of the improper capitalization of MIS related costs from fiscal 2002 through the second 

       quarter of fiscal 2004. 

62)	   Watson and Schmidgall also failed to appropriately inform or consult with AIPC’s 

       outside auditor regarding MIS capitalization. 

63)	   Both Watson and Schmidgall knew or were reckless in not knowing that excessive 

       capitalization of MIS expenses would improperly reduce operating expenses and increase 

       net income. 

              1. 	    MIS Internal Labor 

64)	   In order to accurately determine the proper amount of internal MIS labor expense to 
       capitalize under GAAP, it is necessary to track and consider the amount of time being 
       spent on tasks related to capital projects, the nature of the tasks, the employees 
       performing the tasks, and the related compensation rates.  The actual capitalization 
       recorded should be calculated considering these variables and be based upon actual 
       events. 
65)	   AIPC’s MIS department operating expense budgets included a line item for capitalized 

       internal MIS labor.  The budgeted capitalized labor was not calculated considering 

       anticipated capitalizable tasks, the hours those tasks would require, and the compensation 

       rates of the employees that would perform the tasks.  Rather, the budgeted capitalized 

       labor was, in general, simply a percentage of total budgeted MIS department labor.  Then, 

                                               20

---------------------Page 21---------------------

       during the year, contrary to GAAP, AIPC generally recorded internal MIS department 

       labor capitalization based on its budget rather than calculating it based on tasks, hours, 

       rates and actual events. 

66)	   Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s budgeted capitalized internal 

       MIS department labor was not calculated based on tasks, hours and rates, and that AIPC 

       generally recorded internal MIS department labor capitalization based on its budget.  

       Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that the amounts of internal MIS 

       department labor that were capitalized were not properly calculated, and were arbitrary 

       and excessive. 

67)	   When he began to take over responsibility for the MIS department in 2002, Schmidgall 

       perceived that capitalized MIS labor had been too high in prior years.  Schmidgall failed, 

       however, to correct these prior year errors.  He also failed to implement appropriate 

       accounting procedures for the capitalization of internal MIS department labor, and largely 

       perpetuated existing budgeting and capitalization practices. 

68)	   Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s budgeted capitalized 

       internal MIS department labor was not calculated based on tasks, hours and rates, and 

       that AIPC generally recorded internal MIS department labor capitalization based on its 

       budget.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that the amounts of internal 

       MIS department labor that were capitalized were not properly calculated, and were 

       arbitrary and excessive. 

69)	   Among other things, in connection with preparation of the fiscal year 2003 budget and 

       concerns expressed by AIPC’s vice president of information technology (“MIS VP”), 

                                               21

---------------------Page 22---------------------

       Schmidgall acknowledged that the amount of capitalized internal MIS department labor 

       that had been proposed for the budget was unreasonably high, and instructed the MIS VP 

       to reduce it by approximately 50 percent or half.  Nonetheless, as the budget process 

       continued, Schmidgall permitted the budgeted capitalization to be increased back to the 

       earlier, unreasonable level, and he knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC 

       actually capitalized the budgeted amount.   

70)	   The following year, AIPC’s MIS VP attempted to calculate appropriate labor 

       capitalization for her department.  Although Schmidgall was provided with this 

       information, he still allowed AIPC’s budget for the corresponding period to include 

       budgeted capitalized MIS department labor that was more than double the figure 

       calculated by the MIS VP. 

71)	   AIPC also improperly capitalized internal labor from other departments to MIS related 

       assets. 

              2. 	    Other MIS Expenses 

72)	   AIPC fraudulently and improperly capitalized numerous other MIS expenses, in addition 

       to internal labor expenses. 

73)	   In connection with preparation of the MIS department operating expense budget for fiscal 

       2003, Watson instructed AIPC’s MIS VP to reduce expenses by adding more items of 

       capitalization (in addition to MIS department labor) to the budget.  None of this 

       capitalization was appropriate under GAAP, and all of it was recorded as budgeted.  

       Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that these amounts would be capitalized, 

       and that this capitalization was not appropriate under GAAP. 

                                              22

---------------------Page 23---------------------

74)	   Schmidgall was aware of this capitalization, and knew or was reckless in not knowing 

       that it was not appropriate under GAAP. 

75)	   In connection with preparation of the MIS department operating expense budget for fiscal 

       2004, Schmidgall again added a number of items of capitalization (in addition to MIS 

       department labor) to the budget.  None of this capitalization was appropriate under 

       GAAP, and all of it was recorded as budgeted.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not 

       knowing that these amounts would be capitalized, and that this capitalization was not 

       appropriate under GAAP. 

76)	   Additionally, Watson instructed the MIS VP that any external charge relating to 

       construction in progress should be capitalized, and he failed to communicate to the MIS 

       VP any necessary or appropriate exceptions to that broad general instruction under 

       GAAP.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing of the broad general guidelines 

       provided in this area, and similarly failed to communicate appropriate exceptions or 

       detail. 

77)	   Based on this broad instruction and approach, AIPC improperly capitalized certain 

       software maintenance charges and items or amounts of consulting or outside labor.  

       Watson and Schmidgall both knew or were reckless in not knowing that AIPC was, 

       contrary to GAAP, improperly capitalizing such expenses.  Schmidgall knew that AIPC 

       capitalized software maintenance charges in connection with MIS capital projects and 

       approved of this practice. 

                                              23

---------------------Page 24---------------------

78)	   Watson and Schmidgall directed or caused the improper capitalization of non-hardware 

       communications expenses, and both knew or were reckless in not knowing that AIPC was 

       improperly capitalizing such expenses. 

79)	   AIPC also improperly capitalized other costs involving MIS, including expenses related 

       to training and routine services. 

       D. 	   Obsolete and Missing Spare Parts 

80)	   For inventories such as AIPC’s equipment spare parts inventory, GAAP generally 

       requires that the value of the inventory include only items that exist and are available to 

       the enterprise.  Accordingly, if a count of the inventory indicates that parts formerly 

       included or believed to be in inventory no longer exist, the missing parts should not be 

       included in the value of the inventory under GAAP. 

81)	   For inventories such as AIPC’s equipment spare parts inventory, GAAP also generally 

       requires that the value of spare parts be reduced or eliminated if the parts are discovered 

       to be obsolete or used, or if their value to the business has otherwise been impaired or is 

       less than the value assigned to them. 

82)	   As spare parts are taken from inventory and used, the usage gives rise to expense that is 

       properly recognized under GAAP.  The expense created by the consumption of spare 

       parts inventory will reduce net income under GAAP. 

83)	   AIPC did not maintain an adequate system of internal controls with respect to its 

       equipment spare parts inventory.  In fiscal year 2002, AIPC retained an outside firm to 

       manage the spare parts inventory at AIPC’s Excelsior Springs, Missouri (“ES”) plant.  

       During fiscal year 2002, with assistance from AIPC personnel, the outside firm 

                                               24

---------------------Page 25---------------------

       performed a physical count of the spare parts at the ES facility that indicated that the 

       spare parts inventory on AIPC’s records was overstated by approximately $1 million.   

84)	   The ES plant manager told Watson about the variance, including the amount, promptly 

       after the count was completed.  Watson refused to permit correction of the records and 

       otherwise failed to take appropriate action in response to this information.   

85)	   Additionally, in fiscal 2002, Watson caused the ES spare parts inventory to be falsely 

       increased for spare parts that had not been paid for or received.  This caused an improper 

       increase in spare parts inventory and a false reduction in repairs expense.   

86)	   Watson also directed that the cost of certain spare parts delivered to the ES plant be 

       charged to the cost of constructing other facilities, which was improper under GAAP. 

87)	   Watson also failed to appropriately inform AIPC’s outside auditor of the spare parts 

       information brought to his attention or otherwise appropriately consult with AIPC’s 

       outside auditor regarding spare parts. 

88)	   Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s spare parts inventory was 

       materially overstated, but he failed to take appropriate action to correct AIPC’s financial 

       information.  Watson also knew or was reckless in not knowing that correcting AIPC’s 

       spare parts inventory records would reduce the carrying value of spare parts inventory 

       and reduce net income.   

89)	   From approximately March through June 2003, AIPC employees counted the spare parts 

       at the ES facility and segregated over $1.4 million of worthless, obsolete, and missing 

       spare parts.  Although segregated and subtotaled, these entries continued to be included 

       in the spare parts inventory total on AIPC’s records. 

                                               25

---------------------Page 26---------------------

90)	   This issue was conveyed to Schmidgall, but he failed to correct AIPC’s records or 

       otherwise take appropriate action in response to this information. 

91)	   Then, in late 2003, AIPC engaged another outside consulting firm.  In approximately 

       February 2004, the consulting firm reported to AIPC that it appeared the spare parts 

       inventory at ES was overstated by approximately $1 to $1.5 million.  This information 

       was promptly communicated to Schmidgall. 

92)	   Then, in early May 2004, the consulting firm reported that it still appeared that $1 million 

       to $1.5 million would be left unaccounted for or unidentified when initial cycle counting 

       was completed and $1 million to $2 million was expected to be identified as obsolete. 

       Again, these findings were promptly communicated to Schmidgall. 

93)	   Nonetheless, Schmidgall failed to take appropriate action to cause the spare parts 

       inventory records to be corrected. 

94)	   Schmidgall also failed to appropriately inform AIPC’s outside auditor of the spare parts 

       information brought to his attention or otherwise appropriately consult with AIPC’s 

       outside auditor regarding spare parts. 

95)	   Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s spare parts inventory was 

       materially overstated in the company’s financial statements, but he failed to take 

       appropriate action to correct AIPC’s financial information.  Schmidgall also knew or was 

       reckless in not knowing that correcting AIPC’s spare parts inventory records would 

       reduce the value of spare parts inventory and reduce net income. 

       E. 	   The Gooch Foods Receivable 

96)	   On or around December 1, 2000, AIPC entered into a five-year agreement to supply pasta 

       to Gooch Foods, Inc. (“Gooch”).  Watson signed the agreement on behalf of AIPC and 

                                              26

---------------------Page 27---------------------

       was familiar with its provisions.  The contract provided that Gooch would purchase a 

       minimum of 18 million pounds of pasta during each twelve-month period or “term” 

       (measured from December 1 to November 30) of the contract.  The agreement further 

       provided that if Gooch failed to purchase the contract minimum during any term, the 

       price of pasta for the following term would automatically increase pursuant to a formula 

       set forth in the contract. 

97)	   During the third quarter of fiscal year 2002 (April through June), Watson and other AIPC 

       employees predicted that Gooch’s purchases for the current contract term might not total 

       18 million pounds by November 30, 2002.  Around the same time, Watson, Schmidgall, 

       and AIPC’s CEO learned that AIPC faced a gap between its actual results and its 

       earnings targets.  In response, the three executives agreed that AIPC would recognize 

       revenue and record a receivable for the third quarter of fiscal 2002 based on the potential 

       price increase Gooch might pay in the next contract term.  Schmidgall and Watson knew 

       the next contract term would not begin until after the start of fiscal year 2003.   

98)	   AIPC employees estimated the size of Gooch’s shortfall and then calculated what the 

       future price increase would be if the estimate proved accurate.  Based on these 

       calculations, AIPC recorded $302,000 of revenue for the third quarter of fiscal 2002 and 

       a receivable in the same amount. 

99)	   During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2002, AIPC increased its estimate of the size of 

       Gooch’s purchase shortfall, recorded an additional $81,000 of improper revenue, and 

       increased the receivable by the same amount. 

                                               27

---------------------Page 28---------------------

100)   Schmidgall and Watson knew or were reckless in not knowing that recognizing the 

       $302,000 of revenue in June 2002 based on predictions about Gooch’s purchasing 

       activity for the following five months was contrary to GAAP.   Schmidgall and Watson 

       also knew or were reckless in not knowing that recognizing the $81,000 of revenue in 

       September 2002 based on predictions about Gooch’s purchasing activity for the 

       following 2 months was contrary to GAAP.   Under GAAP gains contingent on future 

       events cannot be recognized as revenue.    

101)   Recognizing the $383,000 as fiscal year 2002 revenue was contrary to GAAP for at least 

       two additional reasons, both of which Schmidgall and Watson knew or were reckless in 

       not knowing. 

102)   First, the contract provided for a price increase on sales in a future period.  Under GAAP, 

       such revenues may not be recognized until the product is delivered.  None of the product 

       giving rise to the revenue recorded could have been delivered in AIPC’s 2002 fiscal year 

       (which ended on September 27, 2002) because the price increase on which the purported 

       revenue was based would not have started until December 2002.   

103)   Second, by or near the end October 2002, Watson had completed negotiations to acquire 

       most of Gooch’s pasta assets and knew that Gooch’s parent company was planning to 

       exit the pasta business in connection with the acquisition.  Schmidgall was familiar with 

       the status of Watson’s negotiations with Gooch.  Watson and Schmidgall therefore knew 

       or were reckless in not knowing that the price increase for the December 2002 – 

       November 2003 contract term would not occur.   

104)   Early in the first quarter of fiscal year 2003, AIPC completed its acquisition of the Gooch 

       pasta assets.  Instead of recording the elimination of the $383,000 receivable as an 

                                              28

---------------------Page 29---------------------

       expense or as a reduction of revenue, AIPC accounted for it as a cost of the acquisition. 

       Schmidgall and Watson knew or were reckless in not knowing that this accounting was 

       improper under GAAP, which provides that only direct costs of an acquisition may be 

       capitalized. 

       F. 	   The Gooch Foods Wheat Reserve 

105)	  During his negotiations with Gooch at the end of AIPC’s fiscal year 2002, Watson 

       learned that Gooch had not locked in a durum wheat price through forward contracts for 

       2003.  Watson understood that AIPC would therefore have to pay current market prices, 

       which had increased substantially by the end of fiscal year 2002, for the additional durum 

       wheat it would need to produce Gooch brand pasta during fiscal year 2003.   

106)	  Schmidgall, Watson, and AIPC’s CEO discussed ways to prevent AIPC from recognizing 

       in fiscal year 2003 the difference between the old and current durum wheat prices as an 

       expense, as required by GAAP.  Together they determined that AIPC would record a 

       reserve as part of the acquisition cost and that the reserve would be used in fiscal year 

       2003 to reduce the wheat expense recognized by AIPC.  Schmidgall and Watson knew or 

       were reckless in not knowing that this accounting was fraudulent.   

107)	  Watson caused language regarding AIPC’s assumption of “[Gooch’s] wheat price 

       increase reserve payable to [AIPC]” to be added to the Gooch purchase agreement to 

       facilitate AIPC’s recording of the reserve.  Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing 

       that the language he added to the agreement lacked economic substance because it did not 

       change the purchase price or any other substantive aspect of the agreement between 

       AIPC and Gooch. 

                                              29

---------------------Page 30---------------------

108)   Based on the language Watson added to the contract, Schmidgall and Watson instructed 

       AIPC’s accounting personnel to add to the cost of the Gooch acquisition a $500,000 

       reserve.  As planned, during fiscal 2003, AIPC made entries to eliminate the reserve and 

       reduce its fiscal year 2003 raw materials expense by $125,000 per quarter. 

       G.     Specialty Pasta Business Round-Tripping Transactions 

109)   During the relevant time period, the defendants also engaged in transactions involving 

       reciprocal (“round-tripping”) payment agreements for the purpose of recording improper 

       income in AIPC’s accounting records. 

110)   In February 2003, Watson negotiated on behalf of AIPC an asset purchase agreement 

       with an independent manufacturer of specialty pasta owned by a husband and wife.  

       Pursuant to the agreement, AIPC agreed to pay the owners 100,000 shares of AIPC stock, 

       plus future cash payments (the “earnout payments”) if the specialty pasta business met 

       certain profitability thresholds.  In or around February 2003, Watson and the former 

       owners signed the agreement.  Shortly thereafter, the former owners became employees 

       of AIPC. 

111)   During the first six months after the acquisition, AIPC encountered difficulties with its 

       integration of the specialty pasta business and the business generated less income than 

       AIPC had predicted.  In late August 2003, Watson asked the former owners to reimburse 

       AIPC for certain unbudgeted costs associated with the acquired business.  The former 

       owners refused and asserted that AIPC’s own failures were responsible for the business’s 

       lower than expected income. 

112)   When it became clear to Watson that he would be unable to convince the former owners 

       to reimburse AIPC for the unbudgeted costs, Watson, Schmidgall and AIPC’s CEO 

                                              30

---------------------Page 31---------------------

       agreed to find another way to offset the negative impact of the costs in AIPC’s income 

       statement for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003.   

113)	  Around the same time, Watson and the CEO were negotiating the terms of Watson’s 

       departure from AIPC.  Watson and the CEO agreed that Watson would be paid $125,000 

       upon his departure from AIPC if Watson was successful in at least neutralizing the 

       negative impact of the acquired business on AIPC’s income statement. 

114)	  In or around September 2003, Watson approached the former owners with two 

       agreements that had been prepared at Watson’s direction.  One agreement provided that 

       the former owners would reimburse AIPC for $1.28 million of costs incurred by AIPC.  

       The second agreement provided that AIPC would pay the former owners a $1.3 million 

       earnout payment.  Watson and the former owners signed the reimbursement agreement 

       and the earnout payment agreement which were dated, respectively, September 18, 2003, 

       and September 19, 2003.  Soon thereafter, AIPC made a payment to the owners that 

       equaled the difference between the amounts in the two agreements, or approximately 

       $22,000. 

115)	  Watson did not make any calculation of the earnout payment amount under the terms of 

       the asset purchase agreement.  Instead, the $1.3 million amount Watson caused to be 

       included in the September 19th
                                     earnout payment agreement was based on the amount by 

       which Watson, Schmidgall, and AIPC’s CEO wanted to inflate the company’s income for 

       the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2003.  The acquired specialty business’s fiscal 2003 

       financial results would not have triggered any earnout payment under the terms of the 

       asset purchase agreement.  Further, had an earnout payment been warranted, Watson 

       could not have calculated its amount in September 2003 because AIPC’s 2003 fiscal year 

                                             31

---------------------Page 32---------------------

       did not end until October 3, 2003.  Watson and Schmidgall knew or were reckless in not 

       knowing that the $1.3 million earnout payment amount had no basis. 

116)   This transaction was a circular transaction.  GAAP requires that the accounting for such 

       circular transactions reflect their substance over their legal form.  Contrary to GAAP, 

       Schmidgall directed AIPC personnel to reduce operating expenses by $1.28 million in the 

       fourth quarter of 2003 based on the reimbursement agreement.  Watson and Schmidgall 

       knew or were reckless in not knowing that this accounting was fraudulent. 

117)   At or around the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 (November 2003), 

       Watson and AIPC’s CEO agreed that AIPC should terminate the employment of the 

       former owners and negotiate a buyout agreement with them.  Watson negotiated a deal 

       with the former owners under which AIPC was to pay them $7 million in exchange for 

       the return of their AIPC stock and the cancellation of AIPC’s earnout payment and other 

       obligations under the parties’ original asset purchase agreement.   

118)   Watson, Schmidgall, and AIPC’s CEO discussed the $7 million buyout price Watson had 

       negotiated and together the three executives agreed to incorporate into the final 

       documents for the transaction an incremental reimbursement payment from the former 

       owners to AIPC to further fraudulently reduce AIPC’s reported expenses. 

119)   On or about December 12, 2003, the former owners received from AIPC a term sheet that 

       increased the buyout price they had negotiated with Watson to $7.5 million and included 

       a $500,000 reimbursement payment from them to AIPC.   

120)   When the former owners sought an explanation for the new buyout price and for the 

       reimbursement payment, Watson explained that the offsetting $500,000 amounts were 

                                              32

---------------------Page 33---------------------

       necessary for AIPC’s internal accounting purposes and stressed that the former owners 

       would still net $7 million.  AIPC’s CEO and the former owners signed the term sheet on 

       or about December 12, 2003. 

121)   On or about December 23, 2003, the former owners received from AIPC an unsigned 

       buyout agreement that provided for the $7.5 million buyout price and $500,000 

       reimbursement payment.  The former owners signed the agreement and returned it to 

       AIPC. 

122)   On about January 2, 2004, Watson called the former owners and told them that the 

       amount of the buyout price and the amount of reimbursement payment were each being 

       increased by another $500,000 and that AIPC would send the former owners a new 

       buyout agreement to sign with a buyout amount of $8 million and a reimbursement 

       amount of $1 million.  Watson again stressed that the former owners would still net $7 

       million.   

123)   Watson knew or was reckless in not knowing that the purpose of the offsetting $1 million 

       amounts was to increase AIPC’s first quarter income by $1 million.  Watson also knew or 

       was reckless in not knowing that this accounting was fraudulent because the offsetting $1 

       million amounts had no economic substance.   

124)   On or about January 2, 2004, Watson instructed AIPC’s counsel to revise the buyout 

       agreement to reflect the $8 million buyout and $1 million reimbursement amounts that 

       Watson had described orally to the former owners.   

125)   On or about January 6, 2004, Schmidgall received the revised agreement reflecting the $8 

       million buyout and $1 million reimbursement amounts from AIPC’s counsel.  The same 

                                              33

---------------------Page 34---------------------

       day, Schmidgall sent an email to the former owners attaching the revised agreement and 

       confirming that the reimbursement amount had been increased to $1 million. 

126)   On or about January 6, 2004, Schmidgall, on behalf of AIPC, and the former owners 

       executed the revised buyout agreement with the $8 million buyout and $1 million 

       reimbursement amounts.  Soon thereafter, AIPC paid the former owners $3 million in 

       cash and gave them a $4 million promissory note.   

127)   Based on the revised buyout agreement, Schmidgall instructed AIPC’s accounting 

       department to make entries to record $8 million as an asset and reduce expense for the 

       first quarter of fiscal year 2004 by $1 million.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not 

       knowing that this accounting was fraudulent. 

       H.     Atkins Receivable 

128)   At the end of fiscal year 2003, Watson negotiated an agreement for AIPC to produce new 

       low-carbohydrate pasta products for Atkins Nutritionals, Inc. (“Atkins”).   

129)   During the first quarter of fiscal year 2004, Watson, Schmidgall, and AIPC’s CEO 

       learned that costs in the plant where the new Atkins products were being manufactured 

       were higher than the amounts that AIPC had budgeted.  The three executives attributed 

       the excess costs to problems associated with producing the Atkins products and together 

       they agreed to record a $1 million receivable to offset the impact of the excess costs on 

       AIPC’s first quarter income statement.  Watson and Schmidgall knew or were reckless in 

       not knowing that Atkins had not agreed to reimburse AIPC for higher than expected 

       production costs and therefore knew or were reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s 

       recording of the receivable was fraudulent. 

                                              34

---------------------Page 35---------------------

130)   In or around December 2003, AIPC’s auditor learned that the company had recorded the 

       $1 million receivable.  A senior member of the audit team contacted Watson and 

       questioned him about the basis for the receivable.  Watson assured the senior auditor that 

       Atkins had orally communicated to him a firm commitment to reimburse AIPC for $1 

       million of research and development costs and that a written agreement between AIPC 

       and Atkins to that effect would be signed shortly.   

131)   Watson had no basis for representing that Atkins had made a firm commitment to 

       reimburse AIPC for $1 million of costs.  Watson made the misrepresentation to AIPC’s 

       auditor to facilitate AIPC’s fraudulent inflation of fiscal 2004 first quarter income by $1 

       million. 

132)   In or around March 2004, AIPC and Atkins amended their original agreement to allow 

       AIPC to sell low carbohydrate pasta to third parties.  The amended agreement stated 

       explicitly that Atkins had no obligation to reimburse AIPC for any research and 

       development costs incurred by AIPC.  Schmidgall received a copy of the agreement and 

       knew or was reckless in not knowing that it contradicted AIPC’s assertion to its auditors 

       about the basis for the receivable.  Schmidgall withheld the amendment from AIPC’s 

       auditor and did not disclose to the auditor its content.   Schmidgall also permitted AIPC 

       to leave the false receivable on its records until the end of fiscal year 2004.   

       I.     Trade Promotional Liability 

133)   From fiscal year 2001 through fiscal year 2003, AIPC acquired several large pasta brands 

       such as Mueller’s, Golden Grain, and Anthony’s.  Unlike AIPC’s private label business, 

       sales of branded pasta required AIPC to incur trade promotion costs, which included 

       product discounts, promotions, advertising, and volume rebates.   

                                              35

---------------------Page 36---------------------

              1. 	    AIPC’s Trade Promotion Accounting Practices 

134)	  In accordance with GAAP, AIPC accounted for its trade promotion spending by 

       recognizing a promotional expense and accruing a corresponding liability at the time of 

       sale and then reducing the liability when AIPC paid its customer for the promotion.  

       AIPC’s payment for promotions generally took the form of deductions by its customers 

       from their payments to AIPC.  AIPC based the promotional expense and liability accrual 

       at the time of sale on its annual promotional spending estimate.  The expense and liability 

       were to be “trued up” if actual promotional spending for the year differed from the 

       estimate.   

135)	  During fiscal years 2002 and 2003, AIPC did not have adequate internal controls with 

       respect to its accounting for trade promotions.  During the same time period, AIPC’s 

       actual promotional spending consistently outpaced its estimated promotional spending 

       and, as a result, the promotional liability reflected in the company’s books and records 

       was consistently too low. 

136)	  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC did not have adequate 

       internal controls with respect to its accounting for trade promotions.  Instead of 

       permitting AIPC to recognize expense to eliminate the liability shortages, Schmidgall 

       repeatedly caused AIPC to improperly record offsetting increases to various assets and 

       otherwise caused AIPC to understate its promotional expense.  In total, from fiscal year 

       2002 through the end of fiscal year 2003, AIPC fraudulently understated its promotional 

       expense by more than $10 million. 

                                              36

---------------------Page 37---------------------

              2.      Examples of Fraudulent Failures to Record Trade Promotion Expense 

137)   In early fiscal year 2002, the company’s promotional liability was deficient by 

       approximately $2.9 million.  In response, Schmidgall directed AIPC accounting 

       personnel to capitalize $1.1 million of promotional spending to the cost of the company’s 

       acquisition of the Mueller’s pasta brand.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not 

       knowing that this accounting was fraudulent.  AIPC’s auditor told Schmidgall that this 

       accounting was incorrect, but Schmidgall refused to correct it.   

138)   Schmidgall also established an improper plan to make three “catch-up” accruals from 

       fiscal year 2002 through fiscal year 2004 to eliminate the remaining $1.8 million of the 

       liability deficiency.  Schmidgall did not disclose to AIPC’s auditor that the company’s 

       trade promotion liability was deficient or the company’s catch-up plan. 

139)   At the end of the first quarter of fiscal year 2003, AIPC’s promotional liability was 

       deficient by approximately $5.6 million.  At the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 

       year 2003, the liability deficiency had grown to approximately $8 million.  Schmidgall 

       did not disclose to AIPC’s auditor the full extent of the company’s liability deficiency.  

       Instead, at Schmidgall’s direction, AIPC repeatedly gave the auditor an inaccurate view 

       of the promotional liability that reflected a significantly smaller deficiency.  

140)   In response to the increasingly deficient liability, Schmidgall and AIPC’s CEO organized 

       a review of all company promotional spending prior to August 2002, ostensibly to 

       identify promotional deductions that had been improperly taken by AIPC’s customers 

       and for which AIPC could therefore attempt to seek reimbursement.  Schmidgall and the 

       CEO had instructed that the review should “target identification of $3 to $4 million.”    

                                               37

---------------------Page 38---------------------

141)   The goal of the review was to justify the recording of a receivable to reduce the 

       promotional liability shortage.  An internal memorandum generated during the review 

       that Schmidgall received, however, estimated that the success rate for obtaining 

       reimbursement from customers would be very small, and stated that AIPC should not 

       record a receivable for potentially improper deductions. 

142)   An internal October 2003 memorandum and table summarizing the review results, which 

       Schmidgall received, reflected that only $941,000 of deductions had been improperly 

       taken and estimated that AIPC could potentially recover about $679,000 of this amount. 

143)   Schmidgall disregarded these results and instead, contrary to GAAP, directed AIPC’s 

       accounting personnel to record a fraudulent $3.4 million receivable.   

144)   In November 2003, another AIPC internal report, which Schmidgall received, indicated 

       that the original $679,000 recovery estimate was too high and predicted instead that no 

       more than $500,000 could be collected.  Nevertheless, Schmidgall permitted AIPC to 

       include the fraudulent $3.4 million receivable in its fiscal year 2003 Form 10-K that it 

       filed at the end of December 2003.  Schmidgall also falsely asserted in a memorandum to 

       AIPC’s auditor that the $3.4 million receivable was a “reasonable estimate” and that 

       AIPC managers were “confident in their ability to recover this amount.” 

145)   During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, at Schmidgall’s direction, AIPC also 

       fraudulently capitalized, contrary to GAAP, an additional $1.5 million of promotional 

       spending to the cost of AIPC’s fiscal year 2001 Mueller’s brand acquisition.  Schmidgall 

       knew or was reckless in not knowing that this accounting was fraudulent. 

                                              38

---------------------Page 39---------------------

       J.     AIPC Customer Round-Tripping Transaction 

146)   Beginning in 2001, AIPC requested the U.S. Department of Commerce (“DOC”) to 

       conduct a three-year review for the purpose of removing AIPC, through its Italian 

       subsidiary Pasta Lensi S.r.l. (“Lensi”), from DOC’s anti-dumping requirements.  Pasta 

       exported from Italy to the U.S. is subject to a DOC antidumping duty order.  The purpose 

       of the antidumping order, generally, is to discourage pasta sales in the U.S. at below 

       market rates (“dumping”) by foreign exporters.  Under Schmidgall’s supervision of the 

       process, AIPC met the removal requirements for the first two years of review, for the 

       periods ended June 30, 2001 and 2002. 

147)   In November 2003, Schmidgall learned that AIPC had sold Lensi pasta to a customer at 

       prices below its production cost during the review period ended June 30, 2003.  

       Therefore, AIPC faced a DOC finding that the company (a) had dumped pasta on the 

       U.S. market; (b) was not entitled to a return of the full amount of the company’s anti-

       dumping deposits; and (c) would have to begin a new three-year review period. 

148)   Schmidgall and AIPC’s CEO agreed that AIPC should seek from the customer a 

       retroactive price increase amounting to $345,774 in order to pass the DOC review, and in 

       exchange offer $400,000 to the customer in the form of promotional spending.  The 

       customer accepted the proposal.  

149)   On December 18, 2003, the customer paid to AIPC $345,774.  Thereafter, by two 

       separate checks in January and February 2004, AIPC paid the customer a total of 

       $400,000. 

                                              39

---------------------Page 40---------------------

150)   Schmidgall knew that the customer’s agreement to pay the $345,774 price increase was 

       entirely contingent on the $400,000 promotional payment from AIPC.  Schmidgall knew 

       that AIPC’s promotional payment was in reality a repayment to the customer of the price 

       increase plus an incentive. 

151)   Contrary to GAAP, in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004 AIPC recorded as revenue the 

       $345,774 payment and failed to expense the $400,000 so-called promotional payment.  

       Schmidgall directed this accounting and knew or was reckless in not knowing that it was 

       fraudulent. 

       K.     Revenue Recognition Prior to Shipment 

152)   Schmidgall knew that AIPC had a practice of recognizing current period revenue on pasta 

       shipped after the end of the period.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that 

       this practice was contrary to GAAP. 

153)   At the end of fiscal year 2003, AIPC’s sales outlook deteriorated in step with the steadily 

       contracting pasta market.  In response, AIPC engaged in a sales push by offering 

       aggressive quarter-end promotional discounts to retailers in a process that was known 

       internally as “quarter-end loading.” 

154)   Because of the magnitude of the sales push, AIPC was unable to ship by the last day of 

       the fiscal year approximately $3.2 million worth of pasta ordered by its customers.  

       Contrary to GAAP, AIPC fraudulently recognized the $3.2 million as fiscal year 2003 

       revenue. 

                                              40

---------------------Page 41---------------------

155)   In or around the first week of the fiscal year 2004, the head of AIPC’s logistics and 

       operations department met with Schmidgall and told him that a substantial amount of 

       revenue for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2004 had been recognized on orders that had 

       not shipped by year end.  The head of AIPC’s logistics/shipping department further 

       explained to Schmidgall that some of this pasta had still not shipped but was sitting in 

       trailers outside AIPC’s distribution centers.  Schmidgall failed to take any action to 

       correct the improperly recognized revenue.   

       L.     Durum Wheat Purchase Price Variance 

156)   AIPC used a standard cost accounting system to value its pasta inventory and to compute 

       its cost of goods sold.  Under this system, AIPC created during its annual budget process 

       standard manufacturing costs for each type of pasta based on the manufacturing 

       expenditures it expected to incur, which included the cost of the durum wheat that would 

       be used to manufacture the pasta.  

157)   In fiscal year 2003, AIPC paid less for durum wheat than was budgeted in its standard 

       manufacturing costs, such that the company’s fiscal year 2003 year-end inventory 

       balance (which was valued at standard costs) was overstated by more than $1 million.  

       Schmidgall met with AIPC accounting personnel regarding the variance and instructed 

       them not to adjust the value of the inventory.  AIPC’s auditors disagreed with this 

       accounting, but Schmidgall refused to correct it. 

       M.     Elimination of Compensated Absence Liability 

158)   Prior to 2004, AIPC’s compensated absence (or vacation) policy allowed employees to 

       carry over 80 hours of unused time-off from one year to the next.  During fiscal year 

       2003 and prior fiscal years, AIPC maintained, as required by GAAP, a liability at the end 

                                               41

---------------------Page 42---------------------

       of each reporting period for unused compensated absences that employees could use in 

       the future.  

159)   For fiscal year 2004, Schmidgall budgeted the elimination of the liability based on a plan 

       to adopt a “use-or-lose” compensated absence policy that did not permit any carryover of 

       unused time-off.  Instead of implementing the use-or-lose policy, AIPC allowed 

       employees to carry over up to 40 hours of unused compensated absences into fiscal year 

       2005.  Schmidgall knew that AIPC did not implement a use-or-lose policy. 

160)   In the first quarter of 2004, Schmidgall instructed AIPC’s accounting personnel to 

       eliminate the full amount of the liability and thereby reduce expenses and increase 

       income by $670,000.  Because the policy implemented allowed employees to carry over 

       unused time-off into fiscal year 2005, AIPC should have only eliminated approximately 

       $84,000 of its liability in the first quarter of fiscal year 2004.   

161)   Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s elimination of the full 

       amount of the compensated absences liability in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 was 

       contrary to GAAP. 

162)   Further, AIPC failed to disclose the one-time $670,000 benefit in its Form 10-Q for the 

       first quarter of fiscal year 2004.  Schmidgall was involved in the preparation of AIPC’s 

       first quarter 2004 Form 10-Q, and knew or was reckless in not knowing that AIPC 

       fraudulently failed to disclose in that document the one-time benefit from eliminating the 

       compensated absences liability. 

163)   Schmidgall falsely represented to AIPC’s independent auditor that AIPC had adopted a 

       “use-or-lose policy” during the first quarter of 2004. 

                                               42

---------------------Page 43---------------------

       N.     The Packaging Products Receivable 

164)   Prior to fiscal year 2002, Schmidgall learned that packaging materials AIPC had 

       purchased from Packaging Products Corporation (“PPC”), one of its suppliers, were 

       defective.  Schmidgall permitted AIPC to record a receivable and related income based 

       on the prospect of recovering damages from PPC.  This accounting was contrary to 

       GAAP because GAAP prohibits recognizing contingent gains as income.  Schmidgall 

       knew or was reckless in not knowing that recording the receivable based on the uncertain 

       outcome of AIPC’s lawsuit was contrary to GAAP. 

165)   In or around the third quarter of fiscal year 2002, AIPC filed a lawsuit against PPC to 

       compel PPC to pay AIPC damages.  In April 2003, AIPC and PPC agreed to settle the 

       lawsuit for a $300,000 cash payment to AIPC.  In addition, PPC granted AIPC an option 

       to enter into a supply agreement, on or before May 2004, whereby PPC would sell 

       packaging material to AIPC at a five percent discount over a three-year period, up to a 

       maximum benefit to AIPC of $300,000. 

166)   AIPC left approximately $332,000 of the receivable on the company’s records based on 

       the prospect of entering into the supply agreement and taking advantage of the discount.  

       Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that it was improper under GAAP to 

       maintain the receivable given the uncertainty of AIPC’s future purchases from PPC.   

167)   On or before January 2004, AIPC determined not to purchase any packaging material 

       from PPC.  Schmidgall knew about this decision but decided to have AIPC amortize the 

       $332,000 receivable over two years instead of writing it off to expense immediately.  

       Under GAAP, the receivable should have been written off to expense immediately.  

                                              43

---------------------Page 44---------------------

       Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that there was no basis under GAAP to 

       amortize the receivable. 

       O.     Bay State Milling Revenue 

168)   In March 2002, AIPC and Bay State Milling Company (“Bay State”) entered into a 10-

       year agreement for the supply of durum flour to one of AIPC’s manufacturing plants.  

       The supply agreement required Bay State to pay AIPC a $1 million “marketing 

       payment.”   

169)   Contrary to GAAP, Schmidgall instructed AIPC’s accounting personnel to record the $1 

       million payment as revenue for the second quarter of fiscal year 2002.  GAAP requires 

       that such payments must be recognized as a reduction of cost of goods sold over the term 

       of the contract.  Schmidgall knew or should have known that AIPC’s accounting was 

       improper. 

       P.     General Mills Supply Agreement and Shortfall 

170)   In fiscal year 2002, AIPC entered into a five-year agreement to supply pasta to General 

       Mills, Inc. (“GM”).  The agreement covered AIPC’s fiscal years 2003 through 2007. 

171)   The agreement with GM provided that upon execution AIPC would pay a $2 million 

       “signing incentive” to GM.  AIPC initially determined to amortize the incentive on a 

       straight-line basis, but switched to a different method in connection with its fiscal year 

       2003 budget.  The new amortization schedule delayed the expense, with recognition 

       heavily weighted to the later years of the contract.   

172)   This treatment was contrary to GAAP because (a) the contract contemplated relatively 

       constant volume over its term with only modest price increases (roughly a few percentage 

       points per year) in years three through five and (b) the terms of the contract provided that 

                                              44

---------------------Page 45---------------------

       GM would in some circumstances acquire the right to keep the incentive as it purchased 

       the volumes contemplated by the contract.   

173)   The delayed amortization improperly reduced expenses by over $300,000 through 2003 

       and over $450,000 through the second quarter of 2004. 

174)   Schmidgall was familiar with the new amortization approach, and he approved of or did 

       not object to or prevent AIPC from using this new method to amortize the signing 

       incentive. 

175)   Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that the new amortization treatment was 

       contrary to GAAP. 

176)   Further, during fiscal year 2003, GM did not order the minimum amount of pasta 

       contemplated by the contract.  As a result, GM agreed to pay AIPC a price increase of 

       $.004/pound on the next 80 million pounds GM purchased for a total of $320,000 (the 

       “shortfall amount”).  GM did not pay $320,000 to AIPC in 2003; it merely agreed to a 

       higher price beginning in 2004. 

177)   Under GAAP, AIPC should have recognized the shortfall amount in future (post-fiscal 

       year 2003) periods as the sales occurred, but AIPC fraudulently recognized the entire 

       $320,000 as revenue in the last quarter of fiscal year 2003. 

178)   Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that GM did not pay $320,000 to AIPC 

       in 2003, and that it merely agreed to a higher price beginning in 2004.  He also knew or 

       was reckless in not knowing that AIPC recognized the shortfall amount as revenue in the 

       last quarter of fiscal year 2003. 

                                              45

---------------------Page 46---------------------

179)   Schmidgall approved of or did not object to or prevent AIPC from recognizing the 

       shortfall amount as revenue in the last quarter of fiscal year 2003. 

180)   Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not knowing that recognizing the shortfall amount as 

       revenue in fiscal 2003 was contrary to GAAP. 

       Q.     Depreciation Delays  

181)   Under GAAP, operating assets must be depreciated.  AIPC’s depreciation policy called 

       for depreciation of assets to begin after they were completed and ready for their intended 

       use.  Specifically, under AIPC’s policy, depreciation of assets that became ready for their 

       intended use during a given quarter was to begin on the first day of the following quarter.   

182)   During his tenure as CFO, Schmidgall was responsible for the implementation of AIPC’s 

       depreciation policy.  During fiscal years 2002 and 2003, Schmidgall facilitated AIPC’s 

       improper reduction of depreciation expense by delaying the depreciation start dates of 

       manufacturing-related assets and MIS-related assets.   

183)   For example, during the preparation of the fiscal 2002 budget, one of Schmidgall’s 

       subordinates told him that to reduce depreciation expense, AIPC would not start 

       depreciation of any new MIS-related capital projects during fiscal year 2002 regardless of 

       when the capital projects were completed.  Schmidgall knew or was reckless in not 

       knowing that these depreciation start date delays were part of a fraudulent scheme to 

       improperly reduce depreciation expense by $500,000 during fiscal year 2002. 

184)   During his tenure as CFO, Schmidgall took no meaningful steps to ensure that AIPC 

       started depreciation of assets that became ready for their intended use during a given 

       quarter on the first day of the following quarter. 

       R.     Quantitative Materiality 

                                               46

---------------------Page 47---------------------

185)   As a result of the practices described above, AIPC overstated its pre-tax net income 

       earnings per share by the amounts reflected in the table below. 

       S. 	   Internal Controls Deficiencies 

186)	  As AIPC’s CFO, Schmidgall was responsible for devising and maintaining a system of 

       internal controls sufficient to ensure that transactions were recorded such that AIPC’s 

       financial statements could be prepared in conformity with GAAP.  During the time period 

       fiscal year 2002 through the second quarter of fiscal year 2004, Schmidgall knew or was 

       reckless in not knowing that AIPC’s internal controls were inadequate with respect to 

       capitalization, spare parts usage, promotional spending, depreciation, and other areas.  

       Schmidgall failed to take sufficient steps to devise and maintain adequate internal 

       controls. 

                                               47

---------------------Page 48---------------------

                               FIRST CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                      (Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5) 
                         15 U.S.C. § 78j(b) and 17 C.F.R. § 240.10b-5 
187)   Paragraphs 1 through 186 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

188)   Each of Schmidgall and Watson directly and indirectly, with scienter, in connection with 

       the purchase or sale of AIPC securities, by use of the means or instrumentalities of 

       interstate commerce or by use of the mails, has employed devices, schemes, or artifices to 

       defraud; has made untrue statements of material fact or omitted to state material facts 

       necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under 

       which they were made, not misleading; or has engaged in acts, practices, or courses of 

       business which have been and are operating as a fraud or deceit upon the purchasers or 

       sellers of such securities. 

189)   By reason of the foregoing, each of Schmidgall and Watson violated and unless 

       restrained and enjoined will violate Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5. 

                              SECOND CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                   (Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-1) 
                      15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(5) and 17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-1 
190)   Paragraphs 1 through 186 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

191)   Each of Schmidgall and Watson falsified or caused to be falsified records, records or 

       accounts of AIPC and knowingly circumvented or knowingly failed to implement a 

       system of internal accounting controls. 

192)   By reason of the foregoing, each of Schmidgall and Watson violated and unless 

       restrained and enjoined will violate Section 13(b)(5) of the Exchange Act and Rule 13b2-

       1. 

                                              48

---------------------Page 49---------------------

                               THIRD CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                              (Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act) 
                                    17 C.F.R. § 240.13a-14 
193)   Paragraphs 1 through 186 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

194)   Schmidgall certified falsely that to the best of his knowledge there were no untrue 

       statements of material fact or omissions of a material fact necessary to make the 

       statement made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, 

       not misleading in reports filed by AIPC under Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. 

195)   By reason of the foregoing, Schmidgall violated and unless restrained and enjoined will 

       violate Rule 13a-14 of the Exchange Act. 

                              FOURTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF
                                         (Rule 13b2-2) 
                                   17 C.F.R. § 240.13b2-2 
196)   Paragraphs 1 through 186 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

197)   Each of Schmidgall and Watson made or caused to be made materially false or 

       misleading statements to an accountant in connection with audits, reviews or 

       examinations of AIPC financial statements or in the preparation or filing of AIPC 

       documents or reports required to be filed with the Commission; or omitted to state, or 

       caused another person to omit to state, material facts necessary in order to make 

       statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, 

       not misleading, to an accountant in connection with audits, reviews or examinations of 

       financial statements or in the preparation or filing of AIPC documents or reports required 

       to be filed with the Commission. 

                                              49

---------------------Page 50---------------------

198)	  By reason of the foregoing, each of Schmidgall and Watson violated and unless 

       restrained and enjoined will violate Rule 13b2-2 of the Exchange Act. 

                               FIFTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                   (Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and  

                          Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13) 

 15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a) and 78m(b)(2)(A) and 17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-1, 240.13a-11, 

                                       and 240.13a-13 


199)	  Paragraphs 1 through 186 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

200)	  AIPC violated Sections 13(a) and 13(b)(2)(A) of the Exchange Act and Rules 12b-20, 

       13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13 (15 U.S.C. §§ 78m(a), 78m(b)(2)(A), and 78m(b)(2)(B) and 

       17 C.F.R. §§ 240.12b-20, 240.13a-1, 240.13a-11, and 240.13a-13).  By engaging in the 

       conduct described above, each of Schmidgall and Watson knowingly substantially 

       assisted and therefore aided and abetted AIPC’s violations pursuant to Section 20(e) of 

       the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78t(e)]. 

201)	  By reason of the foregoing, unless restrained and enjoined, each of Schmidgall and 

       Watson will in the future aid and abet violations of Exchange Act Sections 13(a) and 

       13(b)(2)(A) and Rules 12b-20, 13a-1, 13a-11, and 13a-13. 

                               SIXTH CLAIM FOR RELIEF 
                          (Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act) 
                                  15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B) 

202)	  Paragraphs 1 through 186 are hereby realleged and incorporated by reference. 

203)	  AIPC violated Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. § 78m(b)(2)(B)).  By 

       engaging in the conduct described above, Schmidgall knowingly substantially assisted 

       and therefore aided and abetted AIPC’s violations pursuant to Section 20(e) of the 

       Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. §78t(e)]. 

                                             50

---------------------Page 51---------------------

204)	  By reason of the foregoing, unless restrained and enjoined, Schmidgall  will in the future 

       aid and abet violations of Section 13(b)(2)(B) of the Exchange Act. 

                                   PRAYER FOR RELIEF 

       WHEREFORE, the Commission respectfully requests that the Court: 

                                               I. 

       Find that Schmidgall and Watson committed the violations alleged. 

                                               II. 

       Enter an Injunction, in a form consistent with Rule 65(d) of the Federal Rules of Civil 

Procedure, permanently restraining and enjoining Schmidgall and Watson, their agents, servants, 

employees, and attorneys-in-fact, and all persons in active concert or participation with them, from 

violating, directly or indirectly, the provisions of law and rules alleged in this complaint. 

                                              III. 

       Order that each of Schmidgall and Watson pay disgorgement, including pre-judgment 

and post-judgment interest.  

                                              IV. 

       Order each of Schmidgall and Watson to pay civil penalties, including pre and post-

judgment interest, pursuant to Section 21(d)(3) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78u(d)(3)] in 

an amount to be determined by the Court. 

                                               V. 

       Order that each of Schmidgall and Watson be permanently prohibited from acting as an 

officer or director of any issuer that has a class of securities registered pursuant to Section 12 of 

                                               51

---------------------Page 52---------------------

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78l] or that is required to file reports pursuant to Section 15(d) of 

the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. § 78o(d)]. 

                                             VI. 

       Grant such other relief as this Court may deem just or appropriate. 

Dated:  September 15, 2008 

Respectfully submitted, 

_/s/ Nancy J. Gegenheimer________________ 
Nancy J. Gegenheimer 
Mary S. Brady 
Ian S. Karpel 
Attorneys for Plaintiff 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
1801 California Street, Suite 1500 
Denver, Colorado 80202 
Telephone: (303) 844-1000 
Facsimile: (303) 844-1010 

                                             52

