---------------------Page 1---------------------

 

 
                          UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
                                     Before the 
                   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
 
INVESTMENT ADVISERS ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 4053 / March 30, 2015 
 
INVESTMENT COMPANY ACT OF 1940 
Release No. 31539 / March 30, 2015 
 
ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING ENFORCEMENT  
Release No. 3644 / March 30, 2015 
 
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING 
File No. 3-16462 
 
                                                   ORDER INSTITUTIN G 
In the Matter of                                   ADMINISTRATIVE AND 
                                                   CEASE-AND-DESIST 
  LYNN TILTON ;                                    PROCEEDINGS 
                                                   PURSUANT TO 
  PATRIARCH PARTNERS,  LLC;                        SECTIONS  203(e), 203(f) 
                                                   AND 203(k) OF THE 
  PATRIARCH PARTNERS V III, LLC ;                  INVESTMENT ADVISERS 
                                                   ACT OF 1940 , AND 
  PATRIARCH PARTNERS X IV, LLC ; AND               SECTION 9(b) OF THE 
                                                   INVESTMENT 
  PATRIARCH PARTNERS X V, LLC,                     COMPANY ACT OF 1940 , 
                                                   AND NOTICE OF 
Respondent s.                                      HEARING   
 
 
                                              
                                      I.  
 
      The Securities and Exchange Commission (“Commission”) deems it appropriate 
and in the public interest that public administrative and cease-and-desist proceedings be, 
and hereby are, instituted pursuant to Sections 203(e), 203(f) and 203(k) of the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940 (“Advisers Act”) and Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act of 
1940 (“Investment Company Act”) against Lynn Tilton (“Tilton”); Patriarch Partners, LLC 
(“Patriarch”); Patriarch Partners VIII, LLC (“Patriarch VIII”); Patriarch Partners XIV, LLC 
(“Patriarch XIV”); and Patriarch Partners XV, LLC (“Patriarch XV”) (collectively, 
“Respondents”). 

 
---------------------Page 2---------------------

 

                                              
                                            II. 
                                              
       After an investigation, the Division of Enforcement alleges that: 
                                              
A.     SUMMARY 
 
       1.      Since 2003, Respondents have defrauded three Collateralized Loan 
Obligation (“CLO”) funds they manage and these funds’ investors by providing false and 
misleading information, and engaging in a deceptive scheme, practice and course of 
business, relating to the values they reported for these funds’ assets.  Lynn Tilton, who 
controls and makes relevant decisions on behalf of each of the Respondents, is responsible 
for all of these violations.   
        
       2.      The three CLO funds, collectively known as the “Zohar Funds,” raised 
more than $2.5 billion from investors and used these investments to make loans to 
distressed companies.  These loans to distressed companies are the primary assets of the 
Zohar Funds.  However, many of the distressed companies have performed poorly and 
have not made interest payments, or have made only partial payments, to the Funds over 
several years.   
        
       3.      As required under the relevant deal documents, through the trustee, Tilton’s 
entities regularly provide information to the Funds and their investors about the 
performance of the Funds.  This information includes valuation categorizations of the 
Funds’ assets and financial statements purportedly reflecting the financial position of each 
Fund.  
        
       4.      Despite the poor performance of many of the Funds’ assets, Tilton has 
intentionally and consistently directed that nearly all valuations of these assets be reported 
as unchanged from their valuations at the time the assets were originated.   
        
       5.      These actions are inconsistent with the categorization methodology set forth 
in documents governing the Funds.  This methodology turns on, among other factors, 
whether a distressed company has timely made interest payments to the Funds.  Instead of 
applying this methodology, Tilton instead substitutes her own, independent discretion when 
categorizing the Funds’ investments.  At Tilton’s direction, Respondents will not assign a 
lower valuation category to an asset unless and until Tilton subjectively decides to stop 
“supporting” the distressed company.  
        
       6.      If Respondents had applied the categorization methodology set forth in the 
documents, certain valuation ratio tests derived from the categorizations would have failed 
by at least 2009.  As a result, based on other provisions in the documents, management fees 
and other payments to Tilton and her entities would have been reduced by almost $200 
million, and investors would have gained more control over the Funds’ activities, among 
other consequences.  By applying her own discretion rather than the valuation methodology 
set forth in the governing documents, Tilton has avoided these consequences and taken 

                                             2 
---------------------Page 3---------------------

 

excessive fees from the Funds.  As a result, Respondents’ practices were inconsistent with 
disclosures and created a clear conflict of interest. 
        
       7.      Respondents also prepare quarterly financial statements for the Funds, 
which are provided to investors.  These financial statements include disclosures about the 
Funds’ loan impairment policy and portfolio fair value.  Tilton certifies these financial 
statements and represents that they are prepared in conformity with generally accepted 
accounting principles (“GAAP”).   
        
       8.      However, contrary to these statements, Respondents do not prepare the 
financial statements in conformity with GAAP.  Significantly, rather than applying a 
GAAP-compliant impairment methodology, Respondents impair assets only when Tilton 
decides to withdraw support for a distressed company.  This approach mirrors the 
discretionary approach Tilton uses to categorize assets and does not conform with GAAP.  
It is also inconsistent with other disclosures in the financial statements that falsely indicate 
that Respondents assess and consider impairment issues and the fair value of the Funds’ 
loan assets. 
 
       9.      Respondents have never disclosed Tilton’s discretionary valuation 
approaches to the Funds or their investors, much less the conflict of interest these 
approaches created.  As a result, Respondents also breached their fiduciary duties and their 
contractual standard for managing the Zohar Funds as set forth in the relevant deal 
documents. 
        
                
B.     RESPONDENTS 
 
       10.    Lynn Tilton, age 55, is a resident of Rumson, New Jersey and Highland 
Beach, Florida.  Tilton manages each of the Patriarch entities described below.  She also 
controls their decisions.   

       11.    Patriarch Partners, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company with a 
principal place of business in New York, New York.  Patriarch’s employees, including 
Tilton, run the businesses of Patriarch VIII, Patriarch XIV, and Patriarch XV (collectively, 
the “Patriarch Collateral Managers”).  Patriarch is indirectly owned 100% by Tilton.   

       12.    Patriarch Partners VIII, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company 
with a principal place of business in New York, New York.  Patriarch VIII has been 
registered as a relying investment adviser with the Commission since March 2012 and is 
the collateral manager for Zohar CDO 2003-1, Limited (“Zohar I”).  Patriarch VIII is 
indirectly owned 100% by Tilton and a trust for the benefit of Tilton’s daughter.   

       13.    Patriarch Partners XIV, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company 
with a principal place of business in New York, New York.  Patriarch XIV has been 
registered as a relying investment adviser with the Commission since March 2012 and is 
the collateral manager for Zohar II 2005-1, Limited (“Zohar II”).  Patriarch XIV is 
indirectly owned 100% by Tilton and a trust for the benefit of Tilton’s daughter.   

                                             3 
---------------------Page 4---------------------

 

       14.    Patriarch Partners XV, LLC is a Delaware limited liability company with 
a principal place of business in New York, New York.  Patriarch XV has been registered as 
an investment adviser with the Commission since March 2012 and is the collateral manager 
for Zohar III, Limited (“Zohar III”).  Patriarch XV is indirectly owned 100% by Tilton and 
a trust for the benefit of Tilton’s daughter.   
    
       C.      FACTS 
 
Structure, Strategy, and Performance of the Zohar Funds 
 
       15.    Tilton structured the Zohar Funds as CLO funds.  A CLO fund is a 
securitization vehicle in which a special purpose entity, the issuer, raises capital through the 
issuance of secured notes and uses the proceeds to purchase a portfolio of commercial 
loans.  A collateral manager, typically an investment adviser, determines what loans to 
purchase or originate on behalf of the CLO fund.  Cash flows and other proceeds from the 
collateral are used to repay the investor noteholders in the CLO fund. 
        
       16.    The Zohar Funds’ investors invested in the Zohar CLO Funds in return for 
the promise of regular interest payments and the repayment of their principal on a specified 
maturity date.  The three Zohar CLO deals have the following details: 
        
Name of Deal                 Date of Issuance      Approximate            Maturity Date 
                                                   Principal Amount 
                                                   of Notes 
Zohar I                      2003                  $532 million           November 2015 
Zohar II                     2005                  $1 billion             January 2017 
Zohar III                    2007                  $1 billion             April 2019 
 
       17.    Each Zohar deal is governed by various deal documents, including the 
indenture and the collateral management agreement (“CMA”).   Tilton signed each 
indenture and each CMA as Manager of the collateral manager.  
        
       18.    The indenture describes the terms of the offering, including the maturity 
date of the notes, information reporting requirements, and priority of payments.  The 
indenture also describes the rights of the parties and responsibilities of the collateral 
manager.   
        
       19.    The CMA, a contract between the issuer and the respective Patriarch 
Collateral Manager, engages Patriarch VIII, XIV, or XV as the collateral manager for the 
deal and describes that entity’s obligations and compensation.   
        
       20.    The CMA for each deal allows the Patriarch Collateral Manager to select 
and manage the collateral to be held by the fund.  Through the Patriarch Collateral 
Managers, Tilton used the funds raised from investors to buy or make loans to primarily 
private, mid-sized distressed companies (the “Portfolio Companies”).  Tilton typically 
directed more than one of the Zohar Funds to extend loans to the same Portfolio Company.  

                                            4 
---------------------Page 5---------------------

 

Every quarter, the investors receive an interest payment, generated from the collective 
interest payments made by the Portfolio Companies.   
        
       21.    In connection with the loans made to distressed companies, the Zohar Funds 
obtained equity in the Portfolio Companies.  Tilton also obtained equity in many of the 
Portfolio Companies through other entities she owned.   
        
       22.    Tilton’s management strategy for the Zohar Funds is and has been to 
improve the operations of the distressed Portfolio Companies so that the companies can pay 
off their debt, increase in value, and eventually be sold for additional profit.  However, the 
Portfolio Companies as a whole have performed worse than expected.   
        
       23.    As a result, Tilton has now informed the investors in Zohar I that, without 
an extension on the maturity date, they will suffer significant losses when their notes in the 
CLO fund mature in November 2015.  Because of the tremendous overlap in the 
investments across the three deals, any default in Zohar I would have significant 
ramifications for Zohar II and Zohar III as well.   
        
       Tilton’s Management and Control of the Zohar Funds and the Portfolio 
       Companies  
        
       24.    Tilton is the chief executive officer (“CEO”) and sole principal of Patriarch 
Partners, LLC, which employs individuals in various roles to support the Zohar Funds.   
        
       25.    Tilton and entities under her control own all of the Patriarch Collateral 
Managers.  The Patriarch Collateral Managers have no employees of their own, but instead 
rely on the employees of Patriarch to conduct business.  Tilton makes all significant 
decisions relating to management of the collateral.  She also signs all transaction 
documents on behalf of the Patriarch Collateral Managers.   
        
       26.    The Patriarch Collateral Managers are entitled to a Senior Collateral 
Management Fee of 1% of the amount of assets in the deal, paid quarterly, and a 
Subordinated Collateral Management Fee (the “Subordinated Fee”) of 1% of the amount of 
assets in the deal, also paid or accrued quarterly.  As discussed below, payment or accrual 
of the Subordinated Fee is dependent on the performance of a valuation test.   
        
       27.    Entities controlled by Tilton hold preference shares in the Zohar Funds.  
Distributions on those preference shares are also contingent on the outcome of the 
valuation test. 
        
       28.    Tilton actively manages the business of the Portfolio Companies.  She hires 
and fires their senior employees and provides input on their major operating decisions.  
Tilton requires that the companies report regularly to her regarding their financial condition 
and business prospects.  Tilton is the CEO of some of the Portfolio Companies.  In other 
instances, Tilton is the sole manager of the Portfolio Companies that are LLCs.   

                                             5 
---------------------Page 6---------------------

 

        
Tilton Is Improperly Valuing Fund Assets and Improperly Collecting the 
Subordinated Fee and Other Payments.  
 
       The Purpose, Calculation, and Publication of the OC Ratio Test  
        
       29.    The indenture for each of the Zohar CLOs contains certain numeric tests 
that must be met on a monthly basis.  If those tests are not met, the indenture outlines 
certain consequences, which include increased rights by the investors to control the fund 
and/or remove the collateral manager, and elimination of the Funds’ obligations to pay the 
Subordinated Fee.  Failure of these tests also changes the waterfall distribution for each 
Fund, such that investors receive earlier repayments on their principal. 
        
       30.    One of those tests is the Overcollateralization Ratio (the “OC Ratio”) test.  
The OC Ratio is a numeric formula that, in this case, divides the total value of the loans the 
relevant Zohar Fund has made to Portfolio Companies by the outstanding principal balance 
of the notes due to the Fund’s investors.   
        
                                      Value of Funds’ Loan Assets 
                       OC Ratio =    CLO Investors’ Principal 
        
       31.    The higher the OC Ratio, the greater the cushion between the value of the 
Fund’s collateral and the principal amount of investors’ notes.  As the numerator and 
denominator in the OC Ratio approach the same level, the chance of an investor suffering 
losses in its principal grows.  
        
       32.    The OC Ratio test is satisfied if the resulting percentage is at least equal to 
the threshold percentage defined in the indenture.  For the three Zohar Funds, that 
percentage varies, ranging from 105% to 112%.  If the OC Ratio falls below these levels, 
then the consequences outlined in the indenture would be triggered.  Patriarch consistently 
monitors the OC Ratio test percentage.  However, based on Tilton’s inputs, the OC Ratio 
test has never failed, despite the substantial decline in value of the Zohar Funds’ assets. 
        
       33.    Under the terms of the indentures, the trustee for each of the Zohar Funds is 
required to prepare and distribute a monthly report to noteholders that contains various 
information about the fund and its assets, including the outstanding balance of the notes, 
interest received, a description of the loans in the portfolio, and the outcome of tests 
relating to the collateral, including the OC Ratio test.   
 
       34.    The indenture for each Zohar CLO also requires the collateral manager to 
categorize each loan that the fund makes or acquires.  The category of each asset, which is 
published in the trustee reports, determines its value for calculating the numerator of the 
OC Ratio.  Therefore, a change in categorization of an asset results in a change to the ratio. 
        
       35.    In the case of Zohar I and Zohar II, asset categories are numbered 1 through 
4.  Category 4 assets are the strongest and are typically valued at the principal amount 

                                             6 
---------------------Page 7---------------------

 

outstanding on the loan to the Portfolio Company.  Category 1 assets are the weakest and 
are valued at a lower amount.   
        
       36.    For Zohar III, the numeric category designations were replaced with just 
two categories:  “Defaulted Investment” and “Collateral Investment.”  These are equivalent 
to Categories 1 and 4, respectively.    
 
       Tilton’s Control Over Improper Asset Categorizations 
    
       37.    Each indenture contains a very specific definition for each asset category.  
Under the Zohar I and II indentures, an asset may be categorized as a Category 4 only if it 
meets specific criteria, most notably that the asset is “Current.”  A loan is “Current” when it 
is not “Non-Current.”  A “Non-Current” loan is a “Defaulted Obligation” which has 
“previously deferred and/or capitalized as principal any interest due.”  A “Defaulted 
Obligation” is a loan “with respect to which a default as to the payment of principal and/or 
interest has occurred (without regard to any applicable grace period or any waiver of such 
default) but only so long as such default has not been cured.”   
        
       38.    The Zohar III indenture approaches categorization slightly differently, but 
the result is the same.  Under the Zohar III indenture, a loan is a “Defaulted Investment” 
when “a default as to the payment of principal and/or interest has occurred, but only so 
long as the default has not been cured.” 
        
       39.    Based on these contractual definitions, the assets in the Zohar Funds should 
be reclassified as Category 1 or Defaulted Investments when they are no longer Current, 
i.e., when the Portfolio Company has failed to make interest payments and has not cured 
these non-payments. 
        
       40.    However, instead of following the definitions set forth in the indentures, 
Tilton has consistently and intentionally used her own discretion to determine how an asset 
should be categorized.  Respondents do not lower an asset’s valuation category unless and 
until Tilton decides that she will no longer “support” the Portfolio Company.  By 
“support,” Tilton means that she will continue to provide financial and managerial support 
to the Portfolio Company.   
        
       41.    Loans originated or acquired by the Zohar Funds were generally initially 
assigned the highest valuation category -- a Category 4 or Collateral Investment.  Over the 
life of the Funds, Respondents have recategorized a Portfolio Company’s loans as a 
Category 1 or Defaulted Asset only if and when Tilton decided she would no longer 
“support” the Portfolio Company.  
        
       42.    As a result of Tilton’s discretionary approach to the categorization of the 
collateral, she has classified very few Portfolio Companies as a Category 1 or Defaulted 
Asset at any point.  For example, as of January 2014, out of 122 loans in the Zohar II 
portfolio, only 16 were classified as Category 1.  The same pattern exists over the life of all 
three Zohar Funds.  
        

                                             7 
---------------------Page 8---------------------

 

       Consequences of Tilton’s Improper Categorization 
        
       43.    Had Tilton followed the methodology for categorization set out in the 
indenture, the number of Category 1 or Defaulted Investments reported in the monthly 
trustee reports would have looked very different.  In fact, many Portfolio Companies had 
large sums of unpaid interest, beginning by at least 2008.  Certain Portfolio Companies 
have failed to pay as much as 90% of the interest that they owe to the Zohar Funds, yet 
remain classified as a Category 4 or a Collateral Investment.  
        
       44.    Had Respondents appropriately classified the Zohar Funds’ assets, Zohar II 
and Zohar III would have failed the OC Ratio test by at least the summer of 2009.  Tilton’s 
approach allowed Respondents to collect or accrue almost $200 million in Subordinated 
Fees and preference share distributions to which she was not entitled.   
        
       45.    Moreover, investors were not informed about the decline in value of the 
Funds’ assets, regardless of whether the changes caused the OC Ratio test to fail. 
        
       Tilton’s Control Over Interest Payments By Portfolio Companies  
 
       46.    Tilton has been aware of the interest payments made by the Portfolio 
Companies and their financial condition since the Funds’ inceptions.  Tilton regularly 
receives a quarterly interest projection, in which she is notified of the amount of interest on 
loans a company expects to pay that quarter.  
    
       47.     Numerous emails show Tilton directing the amount of interest that a 
Portfolio Company should pay, which may or may not equal the amount that the company 
wishes to pay.  For example, in a 2011 email chain, a Patriarch employee asked Tilton for 
guidance on interest payments from several different companies.  In response, Tilton 
directed that one company should pay $50,000, one company should pay $142,000, and 
one should pay $12,800.  None of these amounts matched the amount of interest due on the 
loans to these Portfolio Companies.   
        
       48.    Tilton makes the ultimate decision on when to accept less than the 
contractual rate of interest from the Portfolio Companies.   
    
       Investors Do Not Know About Tilton’s Approach 
        
       49.    Respondents have not at any time disclosed Tilton’s discretionary approach 
to categorization to the Funds or their investors.  They have not disclosed that they fail to 
consider past due interest when conducting categorization analyses and performing the OC 
Ratio test.  Investors have not been told that the OC Ratio test would have failed at various 
points if Tilton had performed the categorization analyses in the method anticipated by the 
indentures.   
        
       50.    Other parties to the transaction were similarly unaware of Tilton’s approach.  
For example, an email from an employee at the trustee to a Patriarch employee questions 
why there are “multiple uncollected interest payments for Zohar II and III for assets we 

                                             8 
---------------------Page 9---------------------

 

have flagged as Performing.”  Similarly, a rating agency employee emailed in 2010, 
inquiring why certain Portfolio Companies were not considered defaulted in light of unpaid 
interest.  At the time the investments were structured, the insurer for certain of the Fund 
investments described its understanding of the meaning of Category 4 as “[c]ompanies will 
pay current interest and most will have an amortization schedule. . . .”  Respondents also 
have not provided information to any of these parties about Tilton’s actual, discretionary 
categorization approach. 
        
       51.    Respondents’ approach to categorization, and the resulting impact on the 
OC Ratio test, were important to investors and rendered statements about asset categories 
and OC Ratio test results false or misleading.  Respondents’ discretionary approach to 
categorization, which was contrary to disclosures made, also represents a fraudulent and 
deceptive scheme, practice, and course of business.   
    
Tilton and the Patriarch Entities Breached Their Fiduciary Duties and Failed to 
Meet Their Contractual Standard of Conduct in Disclosing Their Conflict of 
Interest 
 
       The Patriarch Collateral Managers Are Fiduciaries and Have Agreed to a 
       Contractual Standard  of Conduct 
        
       52.    Patriarch, the Patriarch Collateral Managers and Lynn Tilton all acted as 
investment advisers to the Zohar Funds they managed.  As such, they owed fiduciary duties 
to these Funds.  
    
       53.    In addition, the CMA defines a contractual standard of conduct required by 
the collateral manager.  Specifically, the CMA requires that the relevant Patriarch 
Collateral Manger, “in rendering its services as Collateral Manager use reasonable care and 
the same degree of skill and attention . . . exercised by institutional investment managers of 
national standing generally in respect to assets of the nature and character of the Collateral 
and for clients having similar investment objectives and restrictions.” 
        
       Tilton and Her Entities Have Not Disclosed The Facts Giving Rise To A Conflict 
       Of Interest 
        
       54.    Tilton’s undisclosed approach to categorization creates a significant conflict 
of interest.  Respondents are making decisions in a way that allows Respondents to collect 
more money from the Funds and retain absolute control over their management, regardless 
of the performance of the Funds’ assets.   
    
       55.    As noted above, Tilton decides when to accept less than the full interest due 
from Portfolio Companies.  Tilton also determines the categories for portfolio assets.  As 
long as Tilton follows her self-designed approach to categorization, which gives her 
absolute discretion, Respondents can keep classifying assets in the highest valuation 
categories and prevent triggering the consequences for failure of the OC Ratio test.  In light 
of these consequences, Tilton’s conflict of interest is and has at all times been material. 
        

                                             9 
---------------------Page 10---------------------

 

       56.    In breach of their fiduciary duties and contractual standard of conduct, 
Patriarch, Tilton, and the Patriarch Collateral Managers have not disclosed Tilton’s actual 
method of categorization or the conflict of interest that arose from use of that method.  
They also have not given the Funds or investors a choice as to whether to consent to this 
conflict.   
        
The Zohar Funds’ Financial Statements Are Also False and Misleading. 
 
       Preparation of the Financial Statements 
            
       57.    Each of the Zohar Funds is required under the terms of the indenture to 
provide GAAP-compliant financial statements on a quarterly basis.  These financial 
                                                               
statements are prepared by Patriarch’s accounting department,approved by Tilton on behalf 
of the Patriarch Collateral Managers, and then provided to the trustee, which makes them 
available to investors.  Information in the financial statements about the value of the Funds’ 
assets was important to investors.  
    
       58.    Each financial statement contains a cover page and certification, signed by 
Tilton.  The certification provides, in part, that the balance sheet and income statements 
provided are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Tilton also certifies that she has 
reviewed the balance sheet and income statements and that those documents fairly present 
the financial position of the relevant Zohar Fund in all material respects. 
        
       59.    Since the inception of the Zohar Funds, Tilton has signed about fifty of 
these certifications on behalf of the relevant Patriarch Collateral Manager, each time 
attesting to the GAAP compliance and fair presentation of the financial statements.  
        
       60.     However, the financial statements are not GAAP-compliant, nor do they 
present a fair picture of the Zohar Funds’ financial conditions.   
        
       Misleading Information Relating to Asset Value and Impairment 
        
       61.    Loans to Portfolio Companies are recorded on the Zohar Funds’ financial 
statements at cost and make up the vast majority of assets on the balance sheet, with a 
corresponding payable to investors in the Zohar Funds.   
        
       62.    Under GAAP, a loan is impaired, and must be measured for impairment 
when, based on all available information, it is probable that the creditor will be unable to 
collect all amounts due for interest and principal based on the contract with the debtor.  
        
       63.    Patriarch did not analyze the Zohar Funds’ loan assets for impairment in 
accordance with GAAP or follow this required impairment methodology.   
        
       64.    At Tilton’s direction, Patriarch does not write down loans for impairment 
purposes but, instead, writes them off if and when Tilton determines that she will no longer 
support a Portfolio Company.   
        

                                            10 
---------------------Page 11---------------------

 

       65.    The impairment decision is driven by Tilton’s categorization—when she 
decides to change the category of an asset from a 4 to a 1, that asset will be impaired in the 
financial statements.   
        
       66.    Even though Patriarch does not conduct an impairment analysis that 
complies with GAAP, Respondents tell investors that it does.  For example, under the 
heading “Carrying Value of Collateral Debt Obligations” in the footnotes to the Zohar II 
financial statements, the financial statements disclose: 
        
       In the event the Company’s expected realization of principal under a [loan 
       asset] is impaired, such that the anticipated future collections are determined 
       to be less than the carrying value of the loan, the Company will record an 
       impairment loss equal to the amount of the anticipated shortfall and will 
                                                        1
       thereafter carry the loan at the reduced amount.   
        
       67.     However, Patriarch has no procedures in place to analyze future collections 
and no such analysis occurred.   
        
       68.    This disclosure is misleading because it tells investors that assets would be 
analyzed for impairment, including an assessment of anticipated collections.  Further, all 
loans that were modified to provide a concession to a Portfolio Company that was under 
financial duress should have been identified and measured as impaired in the Zohar Funds’ 
financial statements.  Instead, as with categorization, Tilton decided when an asset was 
impaired using her own discretion and did not communicate this approach to investors.   
 
       Misleading Disclosures Regarding Fair Value of Loans  
        
       69.    The footnotes to the Zohar Funds’ financial statements also were and are 
misleading in their disclosure of how loan assets are valued.   
        
       70.    These footnotes have consistently stated that the fair value of the loans in 
the portfolio is approximately equal to their carrying value on the balance sheet.  This 
statement is unsupportable and misleading.  
        
       71.    The footnotes have also consistently and misleadingly disclosed that, “[f]or 
substantially all of the” loans, “fair values are based on estimates using present value of 
anticipated future collections or other valuation techniques.”   
        
       72.    In reality, there was never any analysis of present value of anticipated future 
collections, and no analysis at all was conducted to determine fair value.  Instead, at 
Tilton’s direction, Patriarch at all times carried these assets at cost unless and until Tilton 
decided to stop supporting the relevant Portfolio Company.  
        
       73.    Because Patriarch did not conduct fair value analyses, there was never any 
basis for the affirmative assertion that cost and fair value were the same.  Moreover, these 
                                                 
1
 The financial statements for Zohar I and Zohar III contain similar disclosures.    

                                              11 
---------------------Page 12---------------------

 

disclosures indicate that Patriarch does conduct an analysis of the reported fair values, 
which is not true.  
        
       E.      VIOLATIONS 
 
       74.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated 
Sections 206(1), 206(2), and 206(4) of the Advisers Act, which prohibit fraudulent conduct 
by an investment adviser. 
        
       75.    As a result of the conduct described above, Respondents willfully violated 
Advisers Act Rule 206(4)-8, which prohibits fraudulent conduct by advisers to “pooled 
investment vehicles” with respect to investors or prospective investors in those pools. 
        
       76.    As a result of the conduct described above, Patriarch alternatively willfully 
aided and abetted and caused violations of Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the 
Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 promulgated thereunder, by Tilton and the Patriarch 
Collateral Managers. 
        
                                            III. 
        
       In view of the allegations made by the Division of Enforcement, the Commission 
deems it necessary and appropriate in the public interest that public administrative and 
cease-and-desist proceedings be instituted to determine: 
        
       A.      Whether the allegations set forth in Section II hereof are true and, in 
connection therewith, to afford Respondents an opportunity to establish any defenses to such 
allegations;  
        
       B.      What, if any, remedial action is appropriate in the public interest against 
Respondents pursuant to Sections 203(e) and 203(f) of the Advisers Act including, but not 
limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 203 of the Advisers Act;  
        
       C.      What, if any, remedial action is appropriate and in the public interest against 
Respondents pursuant to Section 9(b) of the Investment Company Act including, but not 
limited to, disgorgement and civil penalties pursuant to Section 9 of the Investment 
Company Act; and 
        
       D.      Whether, pursuant to Section 203(k) of the Advisers Act Respondents should 
be ordered to cease and desist from committing or causing violations of and any future 
violations of Sections 206(1), 206(2) and 206(4) of the Advisers Act and Rule 206(4)-8 
promulgated thereunder, whether Respondents should be ordered to pay a civil penalty 
pursuant to Section 203(i) of the Advisers Act and Section 9(d) of the Investment Company 
Act, and whether Respondents should be ordered to pay disgorgement pursuant to Section 
203(j) and 203(k)(5) of the Advisers Act and Section 9(e) of the Investment Company Act. 
        

                                            12 
---------------------Page 13---------------------

 

                                            IV. 
        
       IT IS ORDERED that a public hearing for the purpose of taking evidence on the 
questions set forth in Section III hereof shall be convened not earlier than 30 days and not 
later than 60 days from service of this Order at a time and place to be fixed, and before an 
Administrative Law Judge to be designated by further order as provided by Rule 110 of the 
Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.110.   
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that Respondent shall file an Answer to the allegations 
contained in this Order within twenty (20) days after service of this Order, as provided by 
Rule 220 of the Commission's Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R. § 201.220.  
        
       If Respondent fails to file the directed answer, or fails to appear at a hearing after 
being duly notified, the Respondent may be deemed in default and the proceedings may be 
determined against him upon consideration of this Order, the allegations of which may be 
deemed to be true as provided by Rules 155(a), 220(f), 221(f) and 310 of the Commission's 
Rules of Practice, 17 C.F.R.  §§ 201.155(a), 201.220(f), 201.221(f) and 201.310. 
        
       This Order shall be served forthwith upon Respondents as provided for in the 
Commission’s Rules of Practice. 
        
       IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an 
initial decision no later than 300 days from the date of service of this Order, pursuant to 
Rule 360(a)(2) of the Commission’s Rules of Practice.  
        
       In the absence of an appropriate waiver, no officer or employee of the Commission 
engaged in the performance of investigative or prosecuting functions in this or any factually 
related proceeding will be permitted to participate or advise in the decision of this matter, 
except as witness or counsel in proceedings held pursuant to notice.  Since this proceeding is 
not “rule making” within the meaning of Section 551 of the Administrative Procedure Act, it 
is not deemed subject to the provisions of Section 553 delaying the effective date of any 
final Commission action. 
        
       By the Commission. 
 
 
 
                                                             Brent J. Fields 
                                                             Secretary 
  
 

                                            13 
